Tagineed Nurses Aesoclation | Registration Policy
of the Nosthurst fare toves

sand Nunavut Policy Description: Continuing Competence Plan

Page: 1 of 3 Paley Nuraber: ROL
‘Effective Bate: Janunry 2022 Tew Paliey
Signature Revision: Partial Complete

Review Date: nuary 2025
‘Applies To: Al ctive Memaars 6° ANANT! WU,

‘Purpove Ths policy desebes what consttules  Cortimuing Competency Plan (CCP) acceptable To
RNAN“/NU as 22°tat its Cont auing Competence Program requirements. These
“equnremenns are 1 addaion 19, oF coal en of, these Found i the Nursing, 2rofesa09
Act (20031, Consalidat on of the Nersing Act (259), snd RIVANT/NU Bylaws.

Defleition:
Competence - means the comb nec krowledse, skill, ane judgment necessary to meet zrceptable
tandardsin he practice of ues ng thursing Batessinn kee, 2003),

Paley
‘Thy RRANT/NU Continuing Competence Program + groundad inthe understanding that al egisrants
are competent and committed 0 ifelong learn

1. Regisvancs sre recuired ta develop and complete a CCP by Dezember 31 ef each registration year
as must went that shey have dane sa when renewing
2. In Jonuary of each registraton year, aCCP auct willbe concucted
3 oT REgstErE™ Yass wl be audited
b, 20%%of Nurse Pracit'oners willbe audited
3. Te nurse willbe notified shcaugh the eal provided them on thele protle The nurses cequwed to
Submit their CCP witnin 30 days after tne emall was sent. f the submitted CCP coes nat meet ne
equitennents set by te Regitatian Commitzesand Reg stra, reget il he requret 40
submit a raved CCP that cous mul theve requirements

The Centinang Competenue Pan rest nstude

9) Wenbiat vn of To Leura Goals ~ bese to demified learang youl shoule ae
‘reunded in the pratessional expectatians fosrd in the Cade ct Eth’es (CNA, 20:7) and

Standards of Peacce f Registered Nuises and Nurse Practmianers (2019)

Tagineed Nurses sociation | Registration Policy
of the Nosthurst faretoves
sand Nunavut Pal

Description: Continuing Competence Plan

Page: ? of 3 Paley Nuraber: ROL

‘The two learing goals should dem onstrate specific, measurable, achievable. rea ist, and
‘rey actions that wll sgt tne nurse to mnaataun co-naetence throug furterlearting
ard wevelopine oftheir nuramg arate.

Specific Auwities. two or more ssecfc ot tes thal have beun underlaker torruet the
learning goals.
The Uecunre' “Continuous Leaning Actunties Lasmples” avaiable an the websRe
may aid the nutee in develap'ng their CP. Thi document is rat a complete list at
scceptable cet os, Other actrties may be accepted it cansuleatior sath te
Registrar and Registration Committee

1]. Esidance of Evaluation ust icentiy how he lesring activity “as improved, mositied
adjor changedt the registrar's practice using detailed examples

‘The goal ofthe Cantining Camaetence Peagram ave te:
1. Provide a process thal supports gusty murs ngcu'e ta the publ.
2. Support nurses in their professional cammitment to life eng lating and excel ance.
3, Provide an anual rypor ng othe Cuntininy Comwetenve Program to demonstrate Ure
nursing oafess‘an’s accountability 0 the pubic

In accordance with the Mars g2rofessin Act Part 6 all nurses ave resulted tu complate an ania
EAP The daratian af emplayment, being on leave, ar ant being regttared nthe surtantregeteation
‘your des ot change the equ re-vent Lo provide a sal faclary CCP.

Proriies, workplaces, aed versunal crLarstunces Lar change, and thes may alter the goals and learn
te vitiag. The expectation that a CP will be zomplted by Dec 21" remains,

Failure to comply with the Continuing Competence Progrsm requirements nay rsu tin the “egietrant’s
application for “ebnstate-nent/ enews being dened formal complaint may he faraacded tothe
Professions

Conduct Committes

‘conaitions and Exceptions:

‘Authority and Aecountabiltys
This olay ssued undo the sutherly of RNANT/NU Bore of Drettons and as governed by the

Cansn idatian af the Nursing Act (1998), Section 2; hurting Profession Act (2008], Section, 29: ANANT NL
yl 2, Section 5 (st) und Bylaw 4, The Beard of Drecturs hus the aul ory lo sevbe his soley as
require.
Regineed Nurses Aesoclation | Registration Policy
of the Nosthaast Factores
‘and Nunavut Pal

Description: Cantinuing Competence Plan

Page: 3083 Paley Nurber: RL

‘The Director ct Reguletory Services end Palicy end the Repistation Cemmittes ere eccountab eta the
Board of D rectors, and cltmately ta the members, forthe malementstin at this poly ard may
Aelogate any related admin trative tasks.

References:
Canadign Muses associatar 42017). Code of ees for rewsterea norses. Ottawa, ON: Author Retiwved
from hips://www ens-ali ce/~/medis/eng/page-content/pd!-en/code-of ethis-2017-gcition secure
interactive

Histone
This poliy restores the former policy: R11: Professiona Development Mar
Rewsiass My 2040; lna-y 2021, lartary 2092
