"eqinterad Nurses Aevoelatin | Registration Policy
atthe Northnast leriteres
and Nunavut Policy Description: Nurse Practitioner Re-entry
Program
Sage: Lolz Paley Nuriber: RUA
‘fective Date: Febraary 2018 New Policy
Revision: Partial __ Complete __

Signature

Review Date: April 2023

‘Applies To: Sil y-evinuslyragateved TWANT/NU members wha he dae NP heenan whe oid nat renew
ther practicing NP membershia, and wha cannot mee: the haurs ct practice erteria ta re
eater

urpore This policy quTlmes the proves Tar Fe-enty a5 ai VP when ga inddusl does AO= Ave
sulicent rurse praetivaner Fours of practice as determ ned by the 2VANT/NU.

Policy
Nurse Bra rv Program with RNANT/NLL

To quality‘a” te RAIANT/HU NP Re-entry Program, che app cans must

= Bea cusrem aun p-aetchay membus (RNG NPS v1 Le SNART/NU

have eld a prachuirg NP reg stator a the Northwest fev tarves ane Nanas {9 6
ceneecut ve manthe,

+ Be in goad-standing

Applicants wha choose te comp ete the NP Re-erity Program must wate tothe V Practice Comittee
equestny, 9 renew of thew cxcumstances to detorm ne they meet the cr teria te be co7swered For
the reentry pragrem. “ve NP Practice Cornmittee wil assess each applicant ora case-by-case basis and
develop 39 edie duahzed learning gro9’9° forthe spp icant. The develpment of the ied dushzed
legrnirg program willconsider the applicant's:

4 Numaer of NP pract re hours w thin the previous 4years, andor
4+ ength of time assay form MB practice, and

4 batt e 8. pronaus education, ar aus V> experience, curt cert cat east
4 easen for aralonged absence from active NP prarhce

‘The RE Re-ancry 2rngram may inckide but i nat ime to the completion oF lin ea NP aratice
hours, courses in advareed eallh assessment ard pharma ogy an acorlinumng,
Zompatence/proressional development learring plan. Courses ar to be taken at Canadian post
secondary mnstaulons offering appsved Nurse Practonce pograr ering

‘once the incivavahned leaeeig program's develoced by the NP Practice Gormmttee For the
=pplican:, and the recommendation is tha: the applicant sorrplete a sspervised practic srw thn
the NTor NU, te applicart must apply for an KP cernpnrary cersficaze. The will be required ta
"eqinterad Nurses swe atin | Registration Policy

atthe Northwest leritevies

land Nunavut, Policy Description: Nurse Practitioner Re-entry
Program

Pager Lol? Paley Nuriber: RAR

complete any clinical practice potion of the arogram. Tne lempersrycetiicawe may only be issued
for thet me fequied to complete the clin al practicum.

Upon success‘u comp etiovaf al componeats of the lesnirg prograry set 0 forthe applicant by the
INP Practice Commicter the individ al may apply for active ragisteation wich the ANANT/NG 35. Ure
practiuuner and ‘mast do so wisn 12 moths,

‘coneitlons and Exceptions

llcostsr@ ced to the complete ofthe Nuse ractiane’ He entry Brageam wll be the respanaity
‘of the applicant.

Authority and Accountability:

Ii pol vis. ssued under the authority ofthe RNAMIZNL, Haaed of Drecta’s ard 35 Rowecned by
the Mursing rafession Act (20031, 23(3}¢) and 29(-2); tne Nunavit Nursing Act (838); ard the
RNANT/NL Byles, Bylaw ,s11b} sd Bylaw 7, {Ci The Roatd af Directors hasthe authority to
revise ths Poiey 4s required

‘The Registrar, thuse Practitioner Practice Cammitee, and Regisration Committee are accountable to
the Boare of Greco, a allyeately 0 the members, for the weplemertavion of ths policy and may
delegate an} related adminisative tasks.

History
NA
