Tagietered Wuraes Aasociation | Reg tration Policy

atthe Northwest terstenes

nd Nunavut Pa cy Description: Registered Nurse
fequieements

Page. 10
Pa cy Nurmter: ROL

‘Effective Dates Tan 202 New Pore

Signature: Revision: Partial __X Complete

Review Date: Jan 2025
‘Applies To: Al apolicant Tor vepavotion 949 Registered Mirseswth NANIWD

Purpose: Ths palicy autines the “equiremerrs fer reghtration as = registered narae tha Naitherest
Territories and Runguut these requ rements ave ia addon to, orn Car fat on of, those
founc nthe Nursing Profession Act (2003), Corso dation of the Nursing Act (1938}, and
NANT MU Bylaws

Definitions:
Goad Character - refers to the maral and ethial qua ties expected by the genera public of
profesuional wise, amp es of seul aul essnclude: legit, sustworthiess, comsal men Lo at
for others, honesty, accountability ability, ably 30 distinguish right and wrang. eveidance at
aggression lo se and others, andl akg esaonsi ly far one's awn actions (Gommararealth of
Massachusests, 2016;

Good Standing Per Bylaw ?53(1):1N), an indv'duel isin good stancing fdeemed to be n good
tang, by all current oF formes regulatory suthorives where reqisration was nel. Ade onaly he
individuals not curently the subject of eny nvestigatiors, unde-takings, cenctions, or consensual
agreements “elated ta continuing competence requivements”d siping

Fitmass ta Practice ~|the qualities and capabilities of an individ al relevant 10 tar caaacity ta
practice a: arey steed nurse, nlud ng out pol lite Lo, [reer frum ary
(cogritive,
ny prysnat
(i)_poyenetogic
{iw} ersotwnal cowsivan: 9°
fa) dependence an alcohel 9” drugs impairing her o* hs abi ity to practice nusing (CNA. 2017}

English Fluency -detined as the primary language sed to read. write, sten, anc spec

Polley
The fol cwirg sms are required fr “eistrat'n asa registered nurse w th RNANT/U:

11} The apnliaat must aay the fee az uthned n Palcy 6.

Tegietered Wuraes Aasociation | Reg tration Policy
afthe Northwest terstenes
nd Nunavut Pa cy Description: Registre Nurse
Requirements

Page. 2 até

Pa cy Nurmter: ROL

12} The applicant must provide
21, A copy of one of the following for proof of identification. all documentation must be
_Eevernment issued, in colour, contain a signature, and be current:
assaert or another gavern-nent sued photo 1D [eg dewer’s teense or
1 notarized statutory deceration at identity.

Note: Where there hes been a name change. one. the fellaw ng s require:
+ amarriage cer icate, or

> civorce decree. or

> netarined statctary declaration ct legal rame change.

Db) Evidence of fluency in Engish
UUpan gpp ication ta RNANT/NL tor registration, all apoicents uss demonstrace proficiency in
Loe Engish language by meen one of the follovane vecuwre ment

1 Graduation rom an approved Lanadiaa nus program wnese theary 3nd chica
instruction waz in Eng ish (or- ine or stance education programs are not acceptab e tor
idence of uencyls or

Emp ayer Engl sh prof ciency “efarence showing evicence of safe aractce and where the
brmiary language, wractice selling, ane services are ran English speak andl writing
environment for the previous two years asa Registered Nurse in Carada (Form 0. Emslayer
Confiemat on of Laglam Language Proticency)

231 App icant at the agsh language proficiency sest require nent atthe te of weaist-ation
\with anatver Ceracian juricietior and has cantiruea to wark nan Englisyspaabirg and
weit ng environment singe chat tine; cr

4) Demonstrarion of English lenguage comaetence *hra.gn success'u competion af ane of
the following tests uf Enghsh sllvn the tt 2 yous:

+ Canadian English Language Benchmark Assessment tar Nurses (CELBAN}
Internationa Enghsh Language System IELTS) Acaceric Version. The orl ne versicn of
Ue IELTS fs rot seven
Tegietered Wuraes Aasociation | Reg tration Policy

afthe Northwest terstenes

nd Nunavut Pa cy Description: Registered Nurse
fequieements

Page. Sat
Pa cy Nurmter: ROL

The scares an tnese tests used ta determine praticieney inthe English language ae:

Test ‘ELBA TELTS Academe
Writing 7 G
Spears a 7
Titan D 7
Revd ne z cy

Toul Wa 7

i. Tre aapeant ranma ‘ia and match varius tests rsestcampanents 29 achieue a
passing cure

ii, Av fic al copy of rescreauts must be submitted withthe registration aoplication.
If your examination raults do not rreet che abuxe “enuremerts, vou w | 3e
required ta retace one ct the accepted English pretciency exam'nations

Nowe: Al regetrat en decurrantatior orovided ta RAANT/NJ must be proved in English. Mis
he financial responsih ty of the aqalicant fa any tags translation cost

6) Evidence of sufficient nursing hours of practice
The app iu must othe

1 proride one oF move Linployer Reference Faris} completed by urev bus emp overs of
the applicant. This wil certify the applicant engeged inthe prectice of rursing for 2
yrwruni of 1125 havesie the lst 70 yeas mediately preceding tre appluatior; oF

1 sarsfy ian 1/1u they have complete a suitah @ equivalency to 3125 hours af nursing
practice inthe ‘ive years mimediately preceding te amplicstion 4s defined in RNANT/VU
Policy RO9, Practice Hours for Nc and NPs

4) Satisfactory references

FIL In this su paragraph (2:

1 “Parra At” mears the Emslayer Relerence Form attached to this potty
4 *horeraz" meurs tw Venfcation Hows Form attached w his pokey
i, “Farr 8° means the Col eague Reference Farm attached o tis policy

ne "haven means te instructor Heferonce Form staened ta th policy
Tagietered Wuraes Aasociation | Reg tration Policy

atthe Northwest terstenes

nd Nunavut Pa cy Description: Registered Nurse
fequiea rents

Page. ot

Pa cy Nurmter: ROL

2 Sat stectory references at aoth character avd fies ta prectice n the described Form trom
‘ane of be allowing is requ!

iL The mast recent employer in Farm 41 where the nurse was emplayed by one
lemplayes For the preceding Fe years sad had woreed for 9 muneriey of 0X boars
fer that emp over

1h the most receat employer in tare A1 aad 9 caleague, who hod worked withthe
fuse fer a minimure of 2 years, 10 Form B where the nurse was eraplayed by One
femplayer inthe preceding fie Years for a minimum of 300 nours, but the aer 0d of
teplayrien wastes thar five yer:

Note: The Farm 82, verification of Haus, is raquited “om all employers =he
prcueding ve yer ar fra ech emp dyer were the applianl warked « mirimm OF
300 hours

ithe tora mast recent emp overs, hoth m Horm a, whe"s the nurse was-emplovee by
rave ther ore employer in te preceding five years and had worked fr aath
employer fara erin mum of 300 hours;

Iu. Ian employer's preverted 2y policy te provide an Al Form ane an 2 Farm where a
nurse was employed 9a RN in the preceding S years, the applicant ehay provide 2
Lollyue references, in Fon B, whum Uney have worked for a ecrymuen of 2
eats

¥. Manurse as se” emlayed in the araced ng 5 yours, two col eagues in a snmlar
practice, each who had worked with the rurse, may submit a col eague reference
bath n tore

Vi Aninstructar in Fern C where the app ica has not keen employed s nce
succetstlly commplesing an saproved nursing program or equusales: ora eutsing
reftesrer program ar equivalent

2} Evidence of completion ofa basic nursing education program that has been’

approved! by RNANT/NU: oF
ji approved by the applicant's original Canad ar jurisdition ard veriation ot aliglity tor

feptstiot emia a Canadian jr 09; oF

+i. approved by another Canadean ue sition and the nemner is existe n gooe standing,
ip the Cansdian jarisdition in which he or sve mos: recently practised nursing or

Evidence of successfully passing the Entry-to-Practice Exam or one ofthe approved equivalent
exams including

| Profeas onal xaminatian of the Orde des iniorieres et infrmiers du vebec For the
period 184-1978; er
Tagietered Wuraes Aasociation | Reg tration Policy

atthe Northwest terstenes

nd Nunavut Pa cy Description: Registered Nurse
fequiea rents

Page. Sat

Pa cy Nurmter: ROL

ii. The State Board Test Pao {SATP} forthe pe on 1936 -1982; oF
Ni ONAT Five Bort Yursng beainmasion fur ce ae od August 1870. une 1880: or

Ik. CNAT Cavaprenensive Exam’nation far Kurse Reg'stration/ticensu’e ‘3° tne peviad August
19H0 190 1495:

ts

Repistration/Licersure Exarinat on for tre period August 1895 January 2003:

vi Protess onal txaminatian of the Dre des lairieres et tafemiers du cvebec
commencing larwary 1, 2000; or

vil Canadian Regstered Nurses eam [CRNE} forthe aeriod Ianuary 2000] December 2012

vill National Council censure Examination for Registerec Nurses iUrited tates of America
NCLEX~ BN} coremmeruirg kewuiny 2882; oF

ik. National Councilot State Beards of Nursing (Canaan NC.EX-RN} comm
wor

cing lanvary

HARUINU Coes rot 'nt ally ceiterlnre-eaionally Leucated Nurses HN) Hae ta apEtyINg 10
RNANTNU, the applicant rust complete srother Cavachar urisiction process fr demonstrat ng
substantially equivalaa:competerre. EM appl cants must meet the ziteria for registrat cn a5 cut ined ia
his goleyincluding RAN pra 1 another Canadian jurisdietion fa a mvniteum af 1123 1 the past fe
errs

AW IEN wh hos bla ned Heemsuresregbtraion 2 Garuchon uradhtion and ie wompletee an
pproved past-secordary Canadian EN RA bridze-in program that ‘ncluded theory, a supervised einical
prscricum of move than AUO nous, ad Ingoratery sks portion “nay ment the engunenr ents For
registration similar tothe graduste nurse reqdirerrancs by provid sclincal instructa”re‘erence and
program varscrints

Conditions nd Exceptions:

11) An applicart shat has disclosed a criinal convicior fer an offense unde” Le Crna Code
Canad, the Cont-olled rugs and Sunstaaces Act {Canadsi,ar the Food and Drugs Act (Canada
miu provide sulhuent evidence abou the curviclion ty he Dire uf Regulaory Services and
Policy as autined in Paley 1.1: Criminal Cany ctins.

Itan applicant has "ot discloned onthe registrat en application a previnus er current invest gatian
vwseertaeng, condilions,susuensae, or eevacation of ther heescefvegistat on in ally.risd ebOns
‘where they have been employed, the application may be deried by the Registrar. The applicayt
could enoose to anpeal ths decision and hove thew sppkcation rey ewed by the Reputation
Conittes
Tagietered nurses sociation | Reg tration Policy

af the Northwest teratenes

snd Nunavut Pa cy Description: Registered Nurse
Requirements

Page. Rats
Pa cy Murmur: ROL

13} Registration Jncsre
Avpicalwvis registration wil he vale fora six marth pewud fier sex muinhs, the mpheant ol
be “equirec to provide updated application docurvents

Authority and Aecoumtability
This policy ssa under che authoray oF RNANTINL Kogrd of Nwecroes and a5 govemed hy the
Consolidation af the Nursing Act (1998) Nursing Profess en Act (2003), 27; and RNAN“/NU 3y a 2, (2)
and 33). The Board of Nirectovs has the arity to “evise this Poli as required

‘The Directo” ef Regulatory Services and Policy and Reg stration Commitee are accountable to the Baar
‘af Duotlors, and ultimately La the murnbers, for the wrplemental on of ls palcy and may de egale any
related admin strstive asks. The Director o* Regu sory Serv ces and Peliey/Regisration Committee
rast esnond to an application for a certlcate of reqistrauan wee Sax weak OF recent af all requured
ecumentat en

History
This poliey replaces tne ‘orme’ po iis:

1 Fatal Registiation, ssued in May 1986, rewsed Ortoloes 700; Septet ber 20
2.6 Good Cvwracie, asl revised ir August 2920.

7 Fines ta Frage in the Practice of Murs ng la revied december 2017

Rt. Registered hurse Requiremerts, realaces previn.s pales sued in September 2008,
Pevisions: May 2010; March 2015: Augt 2020, ki 2023

References
Cam anivesth at Mzssachusetts, (2016), Determination of gaod mara’ character: Patcy No. NH-O9-
7 Rotrewed from: https dimany masssousbles/documon/201es0 cAyyfnws ng nood oral pokey pl

anadiga mises Association {20141 Gade of ethes fa reastered aurses Ottawa, ON: Author Retaeved
from hips:/fwsww naa c.cs/~/mecia/ena/page-content/odt-en/codeo-ethis-2017-edhior secure

