jatered harass Aaaclation
atthe Northwest teratenes

Regitration Palsy

nd Runsvut Palicy Description: Fees
Page. tats Paley Number: 036
‘lective Gate: January 208 ew Foley
Revision: Partial _X Complete

Signature:

Review Date: January 2024
‘Applies To: Al RNANT/NUI emp ayees, RWANTINUI Board of Bacar, ape anTs Aad ceghraaTe

Purpore; Tis pol cy dscribes (ne various Tous of ANANT NA] accordance with Fw Nursing
Professinn Act (2003), Consolvtation of the Nursing Ar 11988], and RVANTYNL Bylaws

Policy
‘The fol ewing tees are outlined in the Fee Schedule and appraved annually bythe Board ot Directors

11) Processing Fae
processing fee wil be cnaec
NANT/NU. Processing fees a'eren-re'undable.

all ts and vemstatemert applications fee registration sth

12} Annual Registration Fee
2n annual fee will he requiced fram the fallouing members of RNARI/NLL

4 Sot ue Registered nurse
4 Set ue Registered Nurse Practitioner
+ sssocate Memoes!

“irae assorinte member apples far ace membership 9s 9 eRistered nurse ar nurse practtinne”
in the seme membership year, he few will be redued by the mount ofthe associate rrembership
fe.

13} Temporary Centiicate Fee
4A foe willbe reauited fora tersparary cetifcate’
+A foe willbe required ta rerew ar excene a casiprary certifi.

2 it atemporary cenifizae aolder app es fo active membersnin as a registered nurse nurse
practioner the sarne members p yoo, the fue willbe reduced ay Ihe oun uf the Lemnpaary

conificaze fe

\d) Expedited Registration Fee
2: frew Il be enqued for an expedited cert cate of epstescon

Io) Change of Category Fee
jatered Nurees Aaaciation | Regisraion Policy
atthe Northwest teratenes
nd Runsvut Palicy Description: Fees

Page. 2 at Paley Number: 6

‘Any BNANT/NL member whe wishes to change the status oftheir mer-bersnip associate member
AAR a” NP, RN to VE) duc ng. the reucration year willbe charged a foe

|e) Canatlion Nutses Association Fee
Thus fees set by CNA ad collected >y BHANT/NU 0° its behalf Due to sffring
fis fneiberslip years 210%5 unihetions, nw refancs wl Le allowel 0" nurses aby we
already CNA members through another ‘ur sdietion,

1?) Canadian Nurses Protective Socity {CNPS) Fee
ns fee set by CHS and collected hy HRANI NY cn its behalf Dye C0 after ng
tiscal/ereribershipyezrs across urisictions, na re‘unes willbe allowed ‘0" nurses who have
pnd the foe wither yieedictian.

IR} Vioation Fee
vo atior fue equvalent to 50% the current aul fe for ar active practicing eagstratior wl
be charges fn reg scration v latin as autined in RRANT/NL Policy ROT: Registyatioy
violas,

IM} NCLEX-RN Application Fee
[An aeminstrat'on fee will be charged by ANANT/NU ta register candidates ta write the NC.EX-
RN

110) vertficaton of Reglstration and/or NCLEX-AN Report Fee
Amurse requiring 100" of registration andor procf of cemoleting NCLEK-AN report th
ARNANTINU wil be charged afer, These dacuments ill only he art z other iinsdctinas oF
educational insttutiuns, Ver cation und NCLEX doeumertation are sent upon receipt of the
tee.

UZ) Courtesy Registration Fae
‘© Ate willbe required fora Courtesy Registra on!
4A fes willbe recuited ta renew ar exten a Courtesy Registration.

119) bate Fee
allasrual rexewal forms ‘ereived in RANT/NU uif ve after Une renewal aemumistat ve deadline
will be chargee alte te,

1121 Method of Payment
NANT wil accept the tallow ng tars of payment for tees.
Via
+ Mastercard
jatered harass Aaaclation
af he Northwest feratenes
nd Runavut

Page. 3a

Region Paicy

Palicy Description: Fees

Paley Number: 036

+ mioney acder
+ certiind cease

Personal cheques, debit, and cash are not arcepted,

14) Refunds
Registration “es are ron-retundable,

conaltlons and exceptions:
None

Authority and Accountability:

This pry tesa under the authority of RNANTINL Brad of Nirectots and 25 govene bythe
Nursrg Profession A (2008), s1L(L}ivi tha Consolidation of the Nursing Aet (L998); and
RNANT/NU Bylats, The Board of Diractars has the authoricy to revise thie Paley as require

‘The ig rar is zecountable to the Board af Directors, and ukimately tothe members, for she
veplemental on of ls paley and may delegate any relaid admirstatir tasks

History:

This phy replaves patiey 2.0 “Fees” uae in May 1996
Revisions: Sesrerber 2010, May 2014, November 2018; lanuary 2021

