"egistarad Nurses Asoc ation | Admiistat en Finance acy
ofthe No-thaest levitories

and Nunavut Policy Deser gt en: Treve Expense Accounss
Page. Lot? Policy Number. AF
Effective Date! October 2018 Naw Paley,

Revision: Paria _X__ Complete

fas

Review Date: September 2022

‘Applies To: RNANTINU Board of Ovadlors, comwnllaa menbars contracted sarees and
‘employoos.

Purpose: To define wavel expenses or behal oftha Assocalion,

Signature

Paley

‘The guiding principles thatthe individual shoud neither gain nor lose personal funds as a ‘esulh
of work related travel. Onginal receipts must support all expense reimbursement claim items,
excopt far per chem dlains were appkicable.

‘All expense reimbursernent claims from Assosiator funds, whether operating or restic:ed funas,
require approval an @ one up basis, by the person ta worn @ damant reports. is oth the
claimant's and approver's caspansibiliy to cnsufe that :ne cxpenses have been incurted for
Association business purposes; afe reasonable in the context o” the Association's business
‘aot: ant are in aecordanre wh tus aly,

Expenses incurred on tiavel completed an buhalf of RNANT:NU ave addressed in this policy,
‘These expenses irclude air fare. ground transportation, hotels. per diems and the cost of
registration ar conferences, rmablings andor eduzalion,

‘An advanea chaqua far 80% of axpacted traval costs may be issued if requested ten (10} warking
‘days prio’ to travel. Should the amount of the advance cheque exceed the cast of travel, the
Traveller is requited to subrnit payment for ine difference wilh the expense rien

Expense claims must be submited on a timely basis, A rembursenient cheque or dircet pay
deposit will be issued :0 the traveller upon receipt of the expense clam forms and all recuired
receplsidecuments, The foloenng dacumenlalign ust be submitted by the Iraveller

Recript of aufere i book by the traveler
emized hotel receipt

Receipts for ground transportation including tans and gas 4 applicable
Receipts for any registration fees if paid by the traveler.

Itis the responsibilty of te claimant to provide the necessary proof of aicailavel. Acceptable
documentation fo support an aurrat travel claim incluces at ast ane of the following

+ Abaaiding pass (nape ar a panied copy af the image af the electronic baarcing pass
that clearly indicates the fightin information}. o

hotel bil atthe travel destination, or

leaitransil recep lovfrom the dstinatn apart station ar

meal reccipts tom the travol destination. or

ceniticate of conference attendance,
"egistarad Nurses Asoc ation | Admiistat en Finance Paley
ofthe No-thaest leitories
and Nunavut Policy 2eser gt en: Treve Expense Accour:s
Boge. Dot? Policy Number. AF

Airfare must be aranged using the most economical fare without losing the cost of the ticket
shauld cancellation be required,

‘When personal ravel is carmbined with business travel, tha enplayee will e reimbursed for only
the business portion ofthe trip at the lowest available fare.

Air — For domestic and international fights, the standard class of service is the least exaensive
‘economy class fare, All other business class and aromium economy travel may be pe«ntted
fea, Fights in exces of 6 hours, ar for medical reasons) if pre-authorized by the approver.

Rell - The slandard class of seruce is Ihe east expensive economy class fare. However, 10
destinations where the travel ime excoeds 4 nauts a business class fare is permissible, The
rationale fs that the cost of Eusiness class ral service in these cases would generally be less
‘expensive than travel by au when considering the inclusion of meals in business class rll fares,
patental savings in aval to the an port, and fare cffeventials,

Vehicle Should a vaveler use their own vehicle for authorized business on behalf of RNANTINU,
lhe rate payable i certs per <lbmeter will be based an the cuurent rates af the Government of
Carada for the province andior terrtary where the travel occurred. The travel 1s cestriced ta
500K round trip. An individual claiming for use of a personally owned vehicle musthave a curcent
‘alu driver's cense and carry insurance on the vehide thal meets the rnimum reiuirerents of
the resnectiva tarritary, Individuals using a persanal auiamobile snoud "ava insurance eoveraga
{public Hisbilty and property damage) of atleast $500.00,

Rertal cars should be used only when lass expensiva tanspartation is nat avalatie and vehicla
rental would be a reasonable method of transportation. The standard is a mid size car. When a
veh cle is rented both Colision Damage and Liatlly insurance souk! be purchased. All olher
insuranea shauld ba dechned,

‘Travelers wil be reimbursed for the cost of a standard Fotel room and all apalicable faxes. It
staying with Fends or fal and not m business accommodation, the traveler may cham 50.00
per day for pivara lodging,

Per Diem rates for meals sill be paid based 07 the current rates of the Governmen: of Canada
for the prownce andlor feritory where the lravel occured, Incidentals should only be claimed for
full days of travel. Where meals ara provided thiaagh conference faes, private a’ public
‘sponsorship no claim may be “nade.

Individuals are requested lo use shulle ius service ta ane! from aumarts and hats, Where

lama ara neaassa’y, mambars are asked ta share taxis and farss whenever possible,
"egistared Nurses Assad aon
ofthe No-thaest levtories
and Nunavut

Boge Bot?

‘Rdrmiristrat on Finance Pavey

Policy Deser’pten: Treve Expense Accounts

Policy Number. AF

‘Conditions and Exceptions: NIA

Authority and Accountability: iA

History:

This pelicy amalgamated with 2093 1.1. 1.2. when writen in 2006. This paley rerlaces AFI

Travel Exuense Arcounts Bosra

farnniteel Staff tal carne: nfo elfect 2008, rewised 9 2014,

