Registered Varses sociation
of fe Northaest leretones
and Varaout

Tegisration Paley

Policy Dese‘iption: Crim nal Conv ctions

Page: Lot 3 Policy Number. tt
fictive Date: September 2020 ‘ew Policy —__

Signature. Revision: Partial Complete.
Review bate:

“Applies Ta: All registration applicants ta RNANT/ND.

Purpose: This policy outlines the requirements and proces or registration regarding criminal

Poti
11} the apeticas; ewer ehsclose the following inform acier

af A conviction for ancoffense ander tne Criminal Cade {Canada}, the Controlled Deas ard
Substances Act [Canadal or the Food and Drugs Aet [Caracal

2} Where a crimina conviction as defined anoue ies: axed, te Director of Regalataty Sevres and
Poly sa

a} Require the app Kant to provide a cw'eent wulnerable sector comma eacard check, cluding
salts toma criminal reca’ds check based on tingerorinting. In the akernaive, the spp ican®
ay ff shs fs acceprable to ®VANI/NU}supaly suit legal dacumentation of tv criminal
omiction, eluding:

Type vf corwietion
1. Onteat canv'et an

i Dateateftence

‘Age at the time o! ence

es Snecite ature af atfexce and cescupt on of cucumstarces af te offence
¥._ Serserce imposed

bi The applicant may oe askee to provide *he fol wing adltionsl information:

Documentary evidence af rehabilitation etarts
1. Acopy of avy pasion grants!

1) thejoerato. p-ouded oF obtained sha be assessed accord ng. the following cetera to
Astermine eligicilty for initial registration, reinstateme': of regstracion, conversion at
eg ation or ‘enewal of segat ation:

Whether there is any connection getween the carwiction and nursing practice
FThe nature ane frequency of ne offence. For exaniple
4, Did the offence ueeut wher the aap LanL wa in a poston of es?
2. Does the atfence cemorstrate dshonesty?
3. Dous the offence cenioratrate conduct that woule be unsideed prufessal
‘riscanduct, conduct unbecaing or other breach ct the Rursing Protessior Act, Coce at
Ltswsor stanaves af Practice?

Ragitered Varser Assocation | Seqistation Paley
of te Northest lereitones
and Varawut Policy Deseiption: Crim nel Conv ctions

Pape: 2 of 3 Policy Number. tt

i The penalty imposed and whether (nat penally has been sates
ie Whether she conduc: aoses.a threat to patient safety arta an employe’ ability to aaerate
safely and efficery. For examgle
11 Carvistions related to sexual assaul,vnlence or xe of awenpon may cause te
nd vidual to be nelle for vepstiat en
2. Convictions related te honesty end integrity may cast deubton character end ethical
conduct (e, “au, thet, repeated sampling, ec)
3. Corvietions related te drugs and alcohol may nd cate a heslttarchlem cr an ethical
concern ie, traffickng, epeated impsired driving comictions et
4. Mubiate vorvitiors may saggest a sutu-nof cunduct

¥. The uircumlunces ofa Lontiction oF parbualars af the offence, atonement or
applica e rvarmatian. For example:
1. How od wos the apalicay: whey Ine offence occurred,
2. Whar ivas the situation a the applicant at she tme of she atfence,
3 Wiece there aay excenuaring rr amstances?

vi Remanstat an af suncestaleffarts made at rehaailitann ann ather factors which
late or reduce the tkelruud uf -euurrence, Fur exarypl:
1. ow ‘much te has elapsed besweeen the conviction and the aap! ction
2) Whar has the applicant dore Jung that aes ed of L me?

1 Accorsol shments of the applkant since ary convictions, For example
4 asthe applicant shaw sny sencency to “epeat the kind of cand tor which they were
vite

2, us the applicant shuuwn a fire ment on tu rehabilitate herself ut hiesell
3. “as she applicant applied forjorreceivec a pardan?

1a Outstanding Court Canditien
431 When intormatian is received which indicates an applicant has ane or more criminal conviction

dnd any ordtian mpased by the court have not Been ret, the agphcation willbe delved vn
seceptab w eviderce i submitted estabsting the court conditions have been satisfied.

14) The fllowng documents will be completed by the applicant
af RNARI/RU Applicant Ivfgrmistion on Curmral Offences
1b) REWP Vulnerable Sector Commral Racores Chuck

VYulnerat e Sectar describes persone with duties invoking contact with vulnerable embers of
society such 9 culos, the elferly, necsors wth disables, or ces darts care Fackte.

Ragitered Varser Aesacation | Seqistration Paley
of te Northaest eretones
and Varavut Policy Deseiption: Crin'nal anv ctions

Page: Sof 3 Policy Number. Bt

‘Conditions and Exceptions: N/A

Authority and Accountability

‘This pol cy is sued under the zuthority ashe RNANT/NL Board af irectors ard as governed bythe

Nursing Profession Act, 22; and RNANT/NU Bylatr2, Suction 4. The Bvord of Omuctorsfur:hur has te

futnority ta revin tris Policy as required, the D vector of Regulatary Services and Peicy aed Rag statin
Stes ae serourtable ra the ard ef veszors, al ltatly en ths mem aeetuy, far he

imalernertation a” tis policy and may delegate any re ated aemstacive tas.

‘The Drector of Regt aca'y Services ard Policy ‘egistrat on Committee mustissue a reponse to an

inci del applying ‘or registration wathin sin waeks of receiving require cocur-ents

History
Revised: August 2020.

References:

