Rexistesed Nuse rviaws
Association of che Nanhisest

Teertorigs and Nera BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Page: | of

Date Revised: July 207h, 2023
Approved by BOD: August 2, 2023
Rilified hy Membership:

SECTION | Cenaposition
414 Chie Board of Directors shall be composed a?

a) tem members consisting ofa Prosilent,  Presilont-Fle, 1 Vige-President thom the
Nonilwwest Teritories, Vive-Pressen runs Nims, Secretary. a Treasurer sl

Jour regional merabers. each ul w bom ae eloelod mn acexuctance with be Act aad

le bs lanes, each of whom ate aeti.e members al the Associaton and each of ham
have voting power

Is} ammcinber othe public atthe Nwsthwes Tertiteries, wih vosin

power, he sll

ho paint! Ds the Masistes

Je} apublie cpresentatse of Nunavut. with vottng pes et. sho shall be appornted By
the Boar ame

ly the Cxvemive Director as a mprevoting nether

424 fhe sep1oaal membes shal be eleeted Hom the seet0Or wn «buch be Regional member
employed. m aecordanes ve the Bs hes

ABE nthe NWT. on
roche shall he lected liam NWT Sauth, except i the ey eat tat ve ueener oF Use

ions meanher shall he elect rom NWT Nomih andl one regional

[Boaed 1s employes! in Yellowknlf2, m whch ease 4 Fgsnonal meraber may be elect! tron
tbe Yellow knuhe region,

HF In Nimasin, one
tnaube shall bu elected trom Numa Wes

SECTION 2 ems eOMece
The terms of fice shal be

1a) fi the elected numbers, bv yes, except as emferwise pron idl in the bylaws: nd

Ib forthe pubhe representitises, Wo sean. th the possibulity of
rmavsimont of bs sldoional terms

sappountmicat fr 8
Rextstesedl Nuse rviaws
Assocation af che Narhisest

Teertorigs and Nerav BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Page: Dot

Ub Iravewnlanie with the et meet

42) he presidene may authorize a mu vote

An elected number oe public representative eontinnes ts hold oice air he
bepits ofthe elected member oF public tem uncil yessppaintel ey Fooled. oe a
sucoesso¥ bs appointed oy elected

Mestings af the Howl

‘oF the Qos shall he eel at as once a yea

1 as cote ora telephone vote oP the Hoard

wwithovr calling a moeting anal may use cher ragans af teleyammanigation te

communicate with the Estar,

13h Quorum st meetings tthe Hoard saul be 98, Coty members a. tere are vacant
postions. a moray of current members 130%, plas one

SECTION 4

Ponvers tl Batis

1b The Bua sual eal suc powers as are necessary fo eafey wr iy utes under the et
and che Bylaws,

12 Without resrieting sussction 2, the Hes shal previ for the following:

1b} the establishment and maineenane oF a appropriageaexountang Wyte:
1} the appocattenn af at fest shrae members othe Associaton ty ae as bank signees
te) an annual au
nombe:shap at eal yonera meet. and
1g) the apporniment ofa legal adiser forthe Asoctation
13h The Presi

shall preside at all mcerings atthe Boa a all meetings of the executive

‘committee and a 21 general ant special meeunps of the Assoetatio:

Rextstesed Nuse rviaw
Association af che Namhisest

Teertorigs and Neca BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Page: 3 of §
Us) muy atend any meetings af ary committees, except the Professional Conde
Civoeiite nel the neahiestions commit, al ages bl fave xing privileges
le} shall aoc asthe offer! spokesperson of tbe Assoetation
lb shall have gemeral aversight nl direction oF the affairs af Phe ascntion, Phe Hoard
sox the coomittees of the Assiciation
eh shall swgh and execute jou wich the Exveutive Diceote. all contracts entero ante
by the Assacianion which execod a value oP $5.
Ub shall represen the RNANT NU on the hour af the Camaulam Sases Assiciation
aod
1 shall perform, in aadnion «those sted i clauses 1a). all the duces inci
the afigy of President
{4 The Peesident-t'Iect shall
1a} attend metas ot the executive committee aed the Board:
Ishin the absence of Ms President, perf thos: cigs ofthe President ele
Le} pettiuen cuties deluged by the Presiden:
Ib be the eoneaes porsan en the executive gomvmittee for the public rapeesemarices on
the Roar
12} whew appropriate, shal set asthe official spokespersen athe Assiciation,

48} Ue Vwe-Prestdents shal

i

bb

ke

ry

er

sted zneating he executive committe ime the Revi

pectin such eluted sm ae assigaed by the President:

in che absence of ether the President or the President-Elect, perform such dues of
the President or thy President-Elect ts delegated

pettinm dey se aun the poles: aad

be che eoncte: person on the executive vomnitt for she regions members on the
Board
Rextstescd Nuuse rviaw
Association of che Namhisest

Teertorigs and Neca BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Page: dof §

cn

1h

or

The Secretary shall hoop at record of all general aul spocia! meting of tae Baar amd al

geting of “he exceurite eumnutes

Tho Treasorer shall, inauiion ta any eunies maedated ender the

lw) eosurean accurate record is kept all exnies rogeiverl orspem by the Asseciaocy

ID} ac cach woneeal mecting othe Assactation, present an auelited Finaakial searemed
and

Le} suhmit a nonthly Fanci! report the executive commiitiae
Tae row membe:s of Exe Boa shall
1a) communteate with the Vige-Presients:

Us communicate Ihe etisities of the Association tthe ammbers of the Assouiation in

Ibe regina they reeset and

Je} parcivipate in any acts itics in accordance sith the polis

The member of the public Ht the Nomthwest Territories andl tke public represeotatine
fives Nan ut abl

1a} represent a public perspecti-e eo ensure thatthe Association acts she public
ingerost: ar

Ibe comnuinicate wih Une Prevident-Clect

SECTION § Vacancies

the Previsho is anhle complete his her term a office i fe Fire ye oF the te

tbe President leet shal eoeplete th ten oF alice a ty President aad aay be ne=
cote fora Fal wy ea tse

the President is smable to wonmplet his her tetra a ioe in Uwe second year 6 the tem,
the Prosident-Flect shall enmplete the term oF alice athe President and shall be
Prior Far the suet term,

the Peeskkont Elects unable for any seayon ty complete che tgim af ofl. dhe Boat

«all ag electton. and may. ats discretion, appomnt a member to assume she duties
the President-Flget until he vestign takes plage,
Rexfstescd Nuses
Assocation of che Nomhisest
Torrtories and Nuravu

RYLAW 9

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Page: § of §

(4h Hany other member ofthe Hisard is unable w complete his her teem ataTige dhe Rose
rosa is iseeetion. appoint ar meter bo eanupete that member's tera of alice

SECTION @ sponses

Members ofthe Hined ony receive such irvel expenses asa

reg bf de Bae mceordance with tbe plcies nfthe Boar

ar od special meet

SECTION 7 Corman ohOthice

41) Amy member of the Haarl shall sease ip be st member of the Head:

(a) ithe Board suetaber resi

HD} upon termumation oF aotse membersing in the Assostation:

16} upon termination of resseney inthe Northwest Territaias oF Numan

Ul in sceoedanee with the conthiebokancrest policy a Ihe Association,

42) When person exsses to be a member ofthe Board che person shal retoen all propery of
the Assocation tothe hex! offiee wf the Assexsiahnon

