2017 EDITION

CODE OF Ethics

FOR REGISTERED NURSES

CANADIAN
Mi» . NURSES
ASSOCIATION =

ona-aiic.ca/ethics
(CMA is “he navinvalpofees ancl nce of er 199,000 regis mires and ure
practi orors axuse Cavada, CAA alvenecs the prect ey ard pufussion uf nw'sing
bin prnwe hea“ cutcames andstengter Canada’s pus tundad, sak Orr
heal systern

All rig’ss nserveal. Ne parts at his aubtiscta” may 30 ‘apeetuce, dl strtus
Uearsn ted stoned 12 et ieval system or Wrens bed ny fmt or yy
eciavie, ncha-ical, Fhotnccoyi"g. crdinc, a” ot-nnwiaa, it-nut wr ton
nul fic thep-bl se, excepli® ease of“ unecunme Gia use, Tle
resaiccafe /orni-and-cardtione-of- 08 Cpyright far al crm ane zandicians to
reodtne 29a fo eesti permis

SCovyyt at

alia Nurs 2sscintion
50 Driveway OL swa, O° KEP 122
CANADA

Tab BRAT PAR 600.8
Fay 632-020

site: www enaraiie.ca

san

RAVAN SHR MRSA MAPA eg essa mb
tar Mie anc,

ISEN 79--361° 92-4017
2017 Highlights

his editor of the: Care nf ties for Registered Nurses rontalns nes
and updated cartent that re‘leots the contemporary p-actice needs
of registered nurses and nurses licensed in exleded roles, such as
nurse practit avers, Pxamples include

© New contert adel

essing rrecica assistarce ir dying
© Updated torminology ane def n'ans such as

wv care planning
equity
primary hea th care
jb accion

medical assist

ani ying
— workplace bullying

‘© Undated etrics models nclucing Oberle and Raffin Boushal

+ New context or acvocaring for quality wark envicen-rents
hal support the delivery of safe, compassionate,
rompetent and sthinal care

+ Updated refereaces

Covi of Ethos te ex scree Bu

History of the Canadian Nurses Association Code of Ethics

1954

CHA alcats the ner vaural Cuunalof Muses ewdeas sTistee

sllss

1980
CHA acupls ils ean cole, calles CWA Ceaie of E

ca Basis for

1985

NA acing a“

coe, elle Oe

1991

ngeoased

1997

Aurses adept as th para ons 3° CN

2002

ies to Hogi

ie fo Hagia

ties fe Hopi

CNA ethics resources — please visit ona-aiic.ca/ethics
oo — = $§$£_

Contents,
Acknowledgements 1
Purpose of the Code 2
Foundation of the Code 3
Using the Code in Nursing Practice 4
hice! Iypas ot Laneriences end S tuations 8
Part . Nursing Values and Ethical Responsibilities 8
A. Pravcing Seto, Camacssiane-2, Comaarontard =heel Caro e
BR. Promoving Hral-h and Will cing a
. Promoting and 3nsperting Informed Nacisian Ma cing "
3. Harvening Rigrity "
© Maing Poy an Sentient g 4
F. rrmo.ing see 6
6. Being Accourtale 6
Part Il. Ethieal Endeavours Related to Broad Societal issues 1B
Glossary 20
Appendix A. Ethical Models 28
‘i Ltacal Kfcdal tor fetletion: Uuastions 29 Consider Ey
Other Models ard Guides far Chica Retlction and Lecis on-Meking
ir and Applicators 31
Appendix B. Applying the Gods in Selected Circumstances 33
Rasgond'ng Etical ytaIncar patent, Na-Ca passicnate, Ursafe or
Unethical Care Ea
Ethcel Cons dations in Addressirg Expecte-lors Tae: ei Cor ict
wita One's Conse ence Ey
heel Cons darations for Nu’ses iva Natural or Humen-Mace Dise
Cormaricaale D'sease Dutbreac or Mancemic, B
heel Cons derations in eleorsh ps th Nursing Students ul
Aoting Cth cal yin Situations That insole cb 48
References oy

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Canes ues Assocs
Acknowledgements

The Carad an
caTmmirant snd contri
89/0" their exper €@ to arvige CNA I the davaly

‘el rane
vactk a avaport nthe devslopmen. uf 2 Cha cuce cf ethics uve" may 38's
Tvangh mere than tr denaesct ve ypstnt ara roeemenet the CNene
he he eaeplery sorolarhig, carey “wignet
nnstronet-nn his ita “agg tee “or meas azn anh

efelhis, se nas caneteu
ard sn

(Gode of this u Fssbte oa Muses
Purpose of the Code

The Canadian Nurses Assaciation (CNA) Code of Ethics for Registered
Nurses (herein called the Code) is a statement of the ethical values of
nurses and of nurses’ commitments to persons with health-care needs and
persons receiving care. The Code is but) aspivational and regulatory. It is an
aspirat oral document designec ta infa‘m everyone ebcut tre ety cal values! and
stbsequ er responsibiicies end erceavours of nurses." It is also a requlatory too
‘Nursing in Canada isa self-regulating prefession: -hus, rurses are 90nd to a code of
ethies as 9a°t of a “equlato’y process chat serves en¢ protects t1e public.

Ihe Gade provides guidance tor ethieal reletienstips, behavinu’s and cecisan-
akg an is used in cerjune.inn wil pre‘essional slancerts, best prastine,
rsterch, kasss ancl egulal ors Dal guide practic. Havovides puidaris ler Purses
‘ourking Frou et eal chaLongys the: aise in arevlice wilh persons receiving
Colleagues in nursing and otter elds 0° wealth e

re pruvision,

The Code is interced for nurses in al corcexts ard domains of rursing practice
Islnical practice, ecucetion, administrator, research and polcy: CNA, 2UTbel anc
at all 2vels cf dasisior-mieking, It is nat aased on @ partictlar hilosopy 0° ethical
theary bu: arises tram differant schaals of treught, ncluding raletienal ethics. an
ethic at care, princile-hasec ethics, terinist ethics, virtue ethics and values. Ihe
x's developer by nurses ier vurses, angi has a practical er enlalion Sspporle
by mane al diversity. Is mas fr sell-eualation, edaack aru peer
al i ras forse. Ths Eke ‘an elie basis fern stitch
nursesca1 advacate ‘ur quality practice environments te support the cclivery
of sufe, compassionate, compete ond 2t1ea care

The soc'etal centax: in which nurses ware is canscantly changing and can 92
significant inluence 9 thei’ practice. Te Code is revised oericdical y 10 ensure
chat: 8 attuned tc the weeds oF nurses by reflecting changes ‘r saval values and
concitions the: attect the publi, rurses and ather health-care providers, andthe
haall-cara syste. Pete esisions alsa pramate leap cialogue and dabale art
3 ol and engageren! wilh alia issies a-iong mr
Cane, The Cove rey inte arabe use al lle:

rea. grea asa

1 woviders.

‘rsa eer Se wee eg a Tahar ll an = agen
Iris en fe arson cana are rekverait ues ear sacar Race er
Ierve senses 1ch 2 mie ene

cates Vues Asset
Foundation of the Code

Nursing ethics is concerned with how braad societal issues affect health

and well-being. This »wiarw: Ika r.rsos rare aT a ana
éspeulsof social justice tat affccl the social determinants of health arc well-
boing and to adbeuscte fer imarovenents, Although these elements are mut par 0°
rurses' egulatad responsiti cis, they a'e par-o* ethical s‘actice and are importar:
ecucational are mativationcltoals ferall uses,

Part Nursing Values and ‘
i \. Ethical Responsibilities
. Part Il. Ethical Endeevours Related

‘to Broad Societal Issuas

The Coct's erganized into te pars:

Part |. Nursing Values and Ethical Responsibilities — descriaes zhe ethic
resporsitilties centta 7a at‘cal nursing practice areulates through seven primary
va ues and responsibilly s.a.emens, Ihgse slalemels ére grounds in uss

pan'essional elicnstips wilt petsors raoeiving care as wall as wilh sls,
ruasiny soleus au ult hea theca: yuawis, The sever vivery wah ar

A, viding se*. camaassiovate, competent ene utes care

8. “rorvcting health and well-22 ng

©. *orto:ing andl respecting informed decisian-mcking

D. Wenau’'re dignity

[Maintaining privacy anc eonfidenti

boring justice

& Being accountable

al nocuities, thisel wursng practice
jee that are assoe eed

sites rurees wen unelertace to acklress st
revolves enlvavouring ta cvvrsss broad aspects 0° saci ju:
‘wich health and we tein.

(Gods of this “or Fisted Muses
Using the Code in Nursing Practice

‘The seven primary values are related and averlapping. | is impstant (1 all
hse Isr work nwa sacnring a The vl 71 hie Gaede al all Hees Car persons
receiv'ry care —regard oss ofall “buces such as ex, rave, gener, pena ita,
enor expression, sexual orientation, cigcbilty, and athers in ander ta uptad
the dignity ofall. Nurses recognize tre unique history af and the impact of the
sociel determinants of rea tr on che Indigencus Peoples cf Sanece. In health-
care prectice, va ues nay be in canfict. Such value conflicts neec to he censideed
careul vin elation ta eech practice station. When such canflets occu, or shen
hurses thing :hraugh av athica situation, mavy-ind thelat.al touse an ethies model
ar guidance in ethical “et ectior, quest oring and decisin-macing see Appercis 8

Werle Lasiry yaclien ‘rues both kag el ethial
Nurses’ self-reflection dim sions, tho law and elhiss rem stn, lel,
and dialogue with a syste 0° ey auld Ee carnal sith th
1 te Code Hawve, there ray be stuat crs in
nurses collaborate with at7e's to change a policy tat
sincamoarble wich eticl practice. Wha this occurs,
are essential te Code can quide and suga0"t nurses in ecvocating
components ofethical fer charges to law, policy or practice. It ca be =
pursing practice, powert.! eolticalinstrumant for nurses when tray a
rane aread bea eng able I pis ia

other nurses and
health-care providers

Nursosarorosporsibls fr thoelhiasal Ihoir pacts. Bape Ihe warplexiy uf eal
sivations, the Code van only outline nurses’ atrea resgans bilities ane guide thes
in their eflectisn and decisior makirg. it cernot ensure ethical practice. For ethical
pract ce, ctrer elements a’e necessary, such as ¢ cammitirent tc do gced, a sensitivity
and receativeness “3 etv cel matters, and 2 wil ingress to en-2” into rae-iorships wit

persons wha have neeltv-care needs and ater problems. Practice enviren-nerts rave

a signticant uence or nuses' ability toe successful in upheldng the echies of
<he' practice, Nu'sas self-reflection ard dialogue with ather nurses ad naal-h-c2°e
poids are essen: earupeners elie sing pra. ea

canes Wuoos Associate
Quality Practice Environments
Nurses and erepliyers have ar obligalin (1 adnate Ine cendiliors the. supper
Dhical nursing srart ne ineladiry quality pras.icn ewionmer s— for be bere

” gersons resciv'ry cate and for cae ollise Such evitanrior shoe thy seussary
organizational straclires and resumes se premate safely, sugport ard resage:
‘or all gerscns in twe praice sstting. Ctter bealth-ccre providers, organizecion
rd policy-makers 2+ lccal regional, provine’literritail, national are ‘r-ernatior
levels strongly influence etficel practice

Nursing ethics

; encompasses the
Advocacy etersto the eczof suapertirgorracamnercing
2 rause ar course of action, anderlacan an teball al breadth of issues
persansor issues Irae. 2s lo Ine need ipravasjs.27us involved in health-care
art souiclal slruclues to uoe.c gicater equity aid ethics, but its primary
bo-tor wealth far al. Nurses erecievour, nd vidya
vo lective, to cevoeate for and work <oward on neing
social ine ties.

Advocacy

focus is the ethics of
practice known as
everyday ethics.

Nurses Self-Reflection and Dialogue
‘Nurses nzad ta recognize ther they a’e orl agers in providing eae. This mean
chat they ave c responsibilty ta conduc: chemselves ettiellyin what they do and
tow hey interact wit1 parsons receiving cere. “tis includes sefiveiection and
cialoque, Nurses ir all fecets of che profzssion neec to reflect on thir praccoe
P tha quelty cf ther interacaions with oxhers and on che ti
wrainta tir on haalth and well-being, In particu 2, te
ir unset oserk with alters fa, cher nurses, aber heallt-care pro
Ie poblicl  rea.e the marel communities tal walle he prs ef sale,
barpssions cme sul tba su

‘Nursing ethics encompasses the breceh c* isues insolued in eth vere ethis,
bus its prima‘y focus isthe ethics af practice krown as everyday ethics. Nu's2
inal contexts ard domeins o* sing practice are at al levels of dec sion-nak’ra
experiance situctons involvirg ethics. The values anc respansibilty staternerts in
che Gade ae iter ded 20 support nurses ir work'rg thraugh these experiences within
cha context ot tre unique arecticesituetions

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Ethical Types of Experiences and Situations

{When surses san meine The fype ol ethical carnern

ara eaperientiry, Ihey ae
Far abhe seas ith ect leagues ani syporisons, ski: ses bs ates ih a
aan aerly slage, and reveive supparl ane yuidenee in dealing ov i, Mtiying an
cthica concur can eft be a ceining moment trat allows pasitve outcomes to
eme’ge “tor cifficut experiences. In he Coe, the tars cra erd ethical are used
im-changeably besed upon consultat‘ar sta nurse ethicists avd philasophas®
There ere ¢ vurber & terms the: ca1 assist qurses in idemtifying end reiectirg on
ei ethical experiences and discuss rg thera w th atn2’s:

ethical (or moral) agent. Somecne wha has tre canacity ta direct their act'ors
«sume eial nd, lor axample, gil acne Inv patents {Slorch, Hey,

ald sah

ethical (or moral} courage. Wher rursvs stand frm or ¢ point af nore princiale
cr a perficula decis on ahou: sore-hing inthe face of overwhelming fecr or threat
ta thems

ethical (or moral} dilemmas. Arse when there are equelly compelling reasors fa"
‘and against twa ar mera possiale coLrses o* action, and where chocsing ove course
of accion eans taat sorvething alse is eireulshed ar et go. An echicel dilemma is
a particular Uypeo” ala pre.

ethical (ormorell disengagement. Carri: oti nasces wurde
of their echicol commitments, & nurse may then botore epe:tetic er tise gaged
:v the point of being unkind. nen vorrpass orate or exen rue ta otis” neath care
providers avd persons receiving care

ethical (or moral} distress. “Ar ses wher rursas are aneble to ect eccoccing to
their mera jucgmant®(cdney, 2017, J). They feel they know the right thing ta do,
but syscem str.cturas a° personal iritat ors make I: early impossible to pursua the
Tigh: ceurse ¢* action (Jamatan, 1884; Webstar & Bay is, 2000; Rodnay, 2017}
Maral listress can lead .w negative such as feelings al anger,
rustaliet ard gL, yal bean alst bp a walalyst forse Ere Tetian, grneib a
aadvavacy IRecrey, 2017),

rsaquane

ha emotes  ateamar cares te a
‘eines ar faroec soon, US away abe atte al,

canes Wuoos Associate
ethical (or moral) indifference. "I-lics « fullure to assure thy cthival
resporsitilites o* che profession, leaving one in a oassive state that cals ric
ctestion the moral integrity of the [nurse] as well as imperiling the oalcecicn
+c protect “he wulrevable patie rt” ITales-Pequeroles, Lluch-Canut, fcldan-Werirc,
Goberra-Tricas, & Guardia-Dlimos, 201, 0. 8041

ethical (or moral) problem. A situation where theie Hentifying an
araronlisis hetween ena or more va urs anduncertairy ethical concern can
lui Iestrteel onsen =ihicalpravans incre often be a defining

teuusligns alio. hal isrigal or govt ie vee. invid.el, — oment that allows
inkeyporsowel, stgorize-ianal and societal level

positive outcomes to

ethical (or moral) residue, What each of us cares emerge from difficult
oth us from tings in our lives when, in che ‘zoe af experienees.

ireraly distressing situations, we ave been seriously

compromises. "hase stances lee lasnyrd power impressions nour thoughts
“hat persist over me; henge te t2 mata asidue(Wenster & Bay is, 2020}

ethical (or moral} resilience. The capacity el av inrividal a susteir ar restare
hei intayrty in resperse ta oral corvales.y, canon,  3.re8s 0 setbacks
IPusit, 7016)

ethical {or moral} violations. [avalz2 actiows o” failures -o act tia: breach
fundamental duties to the persons receiving cere ar tc collaaques anc. c-her heal-h
care providers,

ethical {or moral) well-being. Congruerce 2etween thougat ere action het
results Irom qurses having the necessary menhenisms andl
op imally resol ethical canlils(Faksé-Peyueto es ela, 2015),

ices in placate

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Part I. Nursing Values and Ethical Responsibilities

Nurses in all contexts and domains of practice and at all levels af decision-
making heer the ethical responsibilities identified under each of the seven
primary nursing values, These resp wibil:sivs apply ca nurses’ Hmteractions with
al gersors whe hve Feulth care needs crare receiving cure ase lus with students,
colleagues and other health-care grovicers. The resporsibilities are intended to
fuide -u'ses in applying he Code to their practice. Tey also serve to artic, ate
nursing valuas to employes, other heelth-cere a-oviders and the pualic. Nurses hela
their collaaques implerient t12 Code, end they ensure that nu’si'g scudents are
acquainted wich i

A. Providing Safe, Compassionate, Competent and Ethical Care

Nurses provice sa“. cormpassionete, compatant and at cal care

Ethical responsibilities:
1. Nurs2e have a respersitil-y ta conic themse
ansibltes cuted r thisdocamerserc r avcct oz scendards in who they

da and how taey interact wich persans reveiv'rg care and crher members ofthe
health-care team.

8 secarding to the ethical

8

2. Nu’ses engace ‘n compassionate care through their speech are bady lerquage
and through chairettorts taunde’stane end care about athers’ health-care “eds,

Nurses tulle trustworcty -e eticrships with persors receiyng care as the
to.ndation at meaningts corrmunice-ian, recogyzing cha: building these
tala onships Iweelves 4 eonsetous ellort. Such relatianshins are er-ieal to
iniderstandiny yestale’s needs ert senerns,

4, Musas question, inlarvene, “eporl and avkiress ursale, nan-camp:

innate,
twicthizal or ineorepetinl gracli¢s wr eva ors the iarfere wth their any
la provide 27, eompatss oral, som plea an eth

cael hey sana

tase we 10 co thes same fsce Apne dx
5, Mises wehonest’aid lake all nysessary actions lp preveal a rine patient
safety incidents. They loarn from near misses end wark with otters ta reduce
‘he potential fr futu‘e ris ad preve table harms ise Aapeniix Bl
“ete ni perp aar era be Caiscer coaecand tural ose cua tein crs

Pa ve ever wile stan rus gcse tes oye ucarSrect vga re ears

canes Wuoos Associate
6. Nuravs araetise “within Her ov level e* eorypetonee and
directior end guidarce nen espects af the care required cre beycnd
thairindividcel comastence" {L'censed Practical Nu’s2s AAssociatior of Prince
dward Is end [LPNAPZI, Associcticn of Registered \urses of Prince Cowerd
Island, & Prince Cdward Islare llealh Secto’ Council, 2014, p.

vk lepprepriate

1. Wher resources are not eveilaale ta provide aoaropriate or sa"2 cave, nu
sollaborece w th atvers ta acjus: pretties and minirige harm. Nurses keep
petsons receiving cave into-riec abut pocential and actual plans regarding “he

very al cava Hhey inlonn eployers asul potential Ihab ta be say al
ually al Peal cat

urs ake st

Lusafeyuead the te
ru ating Fe course b” Lig ob ace Iso A

I ent saely a
vd

9. During a natural or hura-nade disaster, dcladiry # exwrwrieabtsdissas
uullicak.rursusprovidecarcusingaurropriatese lyy cca Corsinacsordane
with cgslatior,“eaulatians ond guidelines provided by aoverrment, ceculatary
bodies. employers, un ors and professionclasscciaians (see Appendix Bl

10. Nurses s.aport, use ond ergoge in rescerch anc ather cctv es trat aero
see, competent, compassionate and ethical care, and they use guidelines for
ethical research tha: are in ceeping wich narsirg values.

1. Nurses ine re nected in research respect tre wel-being of persons ra

are atove all ater aojectves, including the saa for «noel

attantor to the safety of persors ca ving care and informed eonsent,
viscbenef tbelance, th ar'vacy arc contder tial at data ane the manitoring
arch

Nurses tostera sale, quality practce enviroment (CNA & Carad an Fadaraticn
nl Nurses Unions (CHM), 2015

13. Nurses work Lawart prevanting and riimizing all (aims ol violence ay
auliyany an assessing the risk of wok i situations and ty collabora
ibters lo estat ish pravsalxe measures. Wien vig ene wank be ar ticipe.eal
or provertoc, nurses coke actian tu minim ze risk ad ty pretect others and
themselves (CNA, 2016a: CMA & CFNU, 2978; Canadian Nursing Students
Assoc aticr, 20111

ERA, 0 ee te Wea Ate Seca Ez

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
44. When differences emeny embers ef the heall1 cure Leem affect care, rurses
seck constructive arc callaterative oppraaches tc resa ving them and cemmit
19 confl et resolution ard a aersan-cent-ed cppraach ta care,

‘Yb, Nurses support each other in prov cing persan-cent-ed care.

B. Promoting Health and Well-Being
Nurses werk wil1 persons mite aave healih-nare naadls or aie reneivitg care to

ceva Uva loin ther 4 ghest pussies kev ol Ieeallh en wal-bihg

Ethical responsibi

ies:

re the heelth and wel -
the veluas and principles

1. Nurses prov'ce care directed ‘st enc foremost to
being a persors racelving care, recagniery and asi
al primary health care,

2. Nuisas wnr< wit persons receiving care to explore che range ¢* vea th
chinicas available a them, ena ving he. semahava limited wines era,
sia, oromie, geographic or other Feo Hal last I inceuiles Fegisler ed
Nurses’ Associalien of Oulario ANAQ), 70111 Nursus «oeagi'es te social
deterrinarts of health in the'r asszssinonts, dagneses, auteames planning,
inp omentations and evalJaticns wth inciv‘cuals, favilies and corrirunites,
ccllaboresing w'th ethe’s in end outside o* tre Fealth sacceriGNA, 237

al

When ¢ communis healt i
persons, nurses use and advo:
possitle for taase in heir ca

vention interferes w th the ind viduel “igh of
fo’ the use c* tv least restrictive mecsures
iChA, Zoo

4. Nurses col aborate with other Feelth-care provicers and otvers to maxirize

haalth banafits to pe’so%s receiving cera ard with health-care needs anc
noetrs, recognizing and raspac:ing the know ecge, skils anc aersoactives
stall

Men tha integrity of nursas Is compramised 2y patterns at “rstiutional
hahaviaur 2° pratessional avactica hat ereda the ethical erwionmrent are the
say ol sersans eaceiving varelgereraling moral risiress, nurses axprass and
reese ir epneonr Fudvidilhy cr ell Fer thw arora zu iy
cumnimittce LAmericat Nurses ssociat or JANA, 20151

canes Wuoos Associate
©. Promoting and Respecting Informed Decision-Making

Rursas ecngriva, respect and prin. a person's “ght Ia be Fvfarmel ard make

Ethical responsibilities:

1

Nurses provide pt " th the information trey seed to make
informer arc at tonama.s dacisinas rate: to their haath and we HF, ha
alsa ostrk to ansuré Lal hea th inlormalion is civen la Lhase persons in at
yc, wiekestardable ad sparc aan

Nurses espact ihe wishes al capable persens renalving gare. dering

‘eu ion sia vabou. Pe ea th won
Nurses are sensitive

Ns sie Hal mags spe wth 1

Us parsau's infarmiod gansont, Nuvszs reeogrice 12 the inherent power

sind supper: & capable persen’s “gt to “cluse or differentials between

withd-aw consentforcare crtreatrer:atawytime care providers and
‘College of Ranisteree Virses of Brtish Columbia persons receiving
ICPNEC), 201/91, Nu'ses recognize that capadle

are. They da not
persors receiving care may place a different
‘tit an rey dkelism znd nay choose todeter to misuse that power to
family, cull.al expectatiors o° comunity velues influence decision-

in ees oner eking while complying with ‘Ne le malding.
nf cnser

Nunsesare sens tive ta Ihe inherent ping lene s habs ere procs
andl esis tectving care, Puen risust al poxsor I inluor ee si

racing,

Nurses aueacaly fr aesirns acing ware if they ae aoe Uh Peli Uh
ri 8 being comprovvised by fectors bayend cheir control, inck.cing “he
Ascision-making of others,

Nurses srov'ce aducation to supao-t she inforned decisior-macig of casable
ersors. Ty respect the decisions a aersor makes. including ckcice af lifestyle:
or treatrrent chat are not corducive to qood hea ch, ard continue ta provide care
ine non udgmeral menn2

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
2. When farily members e'sagree with the dee’ sien mexde by a aerson reve'ving
core, nurses ess st “amlies iigeining an understancing afthe persox'sdecisiors.
8. Fa person rece'ving
tne law 9
iurseictien

2 is clearly incapable cf consent, the vurse
eciy assess nent anc: sisstitute decis cr-making inthe nurse's,
‘radia’ Nurses Protective Society [CNPS], ZY

Ter ery parsan chat is cansideree ineasaa e af consenting to cere, rurses
promote tat person's pa ticizaticn in discussions avd decisions regending chair
are in manner that 's écaptad tothe aerso's capabiit

10. Nurses, alore with other Feelchcare provide's and substitute decision-
makers, consider and respect the best interests ef the person racelving cave
and any areviously known wishes or advance eare planning tha applias in
Ihe sain 1G, 200

D. Honouring Dignity
Rurses recognize and ithe each person.

Ethical responsibilities:
1

92c2 te Intrinsic

in their pro*essicnal copecicy, relate to all perscns receiving cave w'th

2 Nurses sJoaort parsons receiving:

rein meintaring hei digrity and intog/ty

In hea th-cere decisior-macing, in treatment: and in cere, curses work with
eiving care to tace into eccoLrs thei” velues, cuscoms are spiritual
ll as their social end 2 rnstances without juegmant

nari ci

imervena, are repart

en recessary? when atvers fail to respect
‘he cigaity ot a person thay are caring far or colleague tnclusing students}
reengnising tia tbe slant andipassive is a corriena the neaviur. Ia speak
ni, Taille orversalicn and ajusicalecispules, as epyopriale int

5, Nuuses raspeet the jivany at persons veceivng vara hy arovtling earn in =
dliserw mer anué by rivimizing intrusions

5. Nurse
le mining risk gnil mains satel

ch
dlkiciry anlar diniy for porsors

lla actin stan eas praca eid, es a 1

recuiving cat.

tatu

canes Wuoos Associate

Nurses “vaintain uppropr ete professianal boundaries and ons.re their
relationstips are a ways ‘cr the benefit of the person. They recognize the
atentia vulnerability of persons receiving cere and da not explo t ther trus:erd
decencenoy ir < wey that might comprorise the therapeutic relationship.
“hay do nat abuse he’ r2etionshp for p2‘soral a” finencial gan ane de nczenter
into personel relationships romantic, sexual or other} with persans eneiving cae.

Inall aractice ant, they work ta reliave gan and
su‘tering, inci.cing appraa“é7e and eftect'va symptom reragemert, to allow
psnns raceiving cave lo lee ard ie will cgay.

Nurses encourage persors “etalvig care at cha enc cf chair Ire <p be e ear
alu lial thay wer. Ley

Lan a & persons sori to gain gree olay
shox,

iss roe a passe slag pre ae in order to make
es ad cotisiews shear ert krowr Ia olhor caragive's (Cllege 0
Rog(stercu Nurses of Manila [CANM|, Co loys of Liosusedl Pravtival Nurse:
of Marteba (CLPNML & College of Registered Psyehiocric Nu'sos of Manicota
ICFPNEA, 2016; Callege af Ragisterec Nurses of Nova Scotia ICNKS) &
College af Lice sed Practical Nurses af Nova Scovia [CLPNNS], 20°€;,

Wher a person receiving care is termina ly il ar dying, nurses faster comfort,
aleviate suffering, advocate far adequa'e relief of discarfort ere pain, and
assist paaple in mesting tre gaa c* culturally and spiitsally approa”
cere, [his incLides previding a aa lative eppraach to zere forthe p2oale tha
inlereet with acioss Ihe ilaspan and the 2ov-inau oa, support tor che
(arly during and fallesing the tzalh, andeareal Ihe aerson's bey aller ch

Nurses und
assistance in dying arc: thi parley lelin(s and valu
assotarucs Ihe hide thoy wa cxscientiaus y obj Us wing irenbvral
wilh persons receiv ny eare whe revo reyuasted such assiscane, bey discuss
il ticirsupervisors r advence see Appendix B; Catady, Par arnent, 2016
j2 0° Nurses o* Ontaric [CNO], 20176: CRNKM et el. 2016; CNA, 2C1be}

sland be aves. Ineansidar haw they wll respond la medical
raul such

Nurses treat each orher, colleagues, students and ot er heelth-cere providers in
a respectful manne. recogniz rg the power cif-erentials arrorg formal eccers,
solleagues and students. They work with others -o Fonau’ digrity and resolve
diff

ces iia constructive way,

Nurses faster ameral corrunity in which et

‘openly d'scussec and sspported,

values and chellanges can be

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
ntaining Privacy and Confidentiality

Russes ecngiv bie iyporlante al sr'vaey art eonliderial ly and. saxguard
persoral arity ane exiri.rly nfonnation alain tre eontex! a ratessinal
relat onstip

Ethical responsibilities:

1. Mursas respect she interests at aersons -ecalving cate in the lawful collection
usa, avers are diselnsme ol paisana.tumal On

2. When -urses are corversing with persons receiving cara, they lake reasanad &
measures la prevent cow iden ination in the censerse kn fran haing
screed

3. Nusa colle, sk ancl clivclase Health Pla ora a nsscte-know bess
wilt the highest dogras of analy pess'ble in che eitumsta wees an in
accordance with privacy laws,

4. When vurses are required to disclose information fora paricular pu-gose, they
diselose only the armour” af information recessary fer tat purpese end infor
anlyhosenecessery. They at-emotta da so in ways the: inirize avy porential
harm te persors receiv ng cere 9” oa leagues.

b. Whennursesengageiiary‘ornofcammunicatien, ircludire-veraa orelectranc,
invalving a iscuss‘or of cinical cases, they ensure that their discussicn of

ans recaiving care is respectful andl dees nat identify tose persons Urls
nacessary and eppropriate CMA, 20121

6. 3s acvacete for pa’sars receiving care to have access te thelr own health
care “ecards trough a timely and affordable pracess when si.c1 access is
reqs.

7. Musas respect policies Tat precast and plesarve che privacy ot persors
receiving care, including sea y Saleguats 1 ‘lemmal on Lato

8. Nusas do tal asus Uair avcesss Le inlorretion by accessing hes theta
recurs, including those family mene ar any olher pets, fer purjases
incansishu wilh ttoir profess abl ge.évs, Wen using phe’, wep or
atier <tubnelagy far assessirent, diagnos’, planing, implenerse:ioy and

valuatien o* persons receiving cave, nurses abtain “hei” cawsent and do vat

intuce into thair privacy. They hardle phocws ar v cecs with ca’e ta meintar
‘a confidential ty of he 92'so7s inva vad, re uding colleagues and students.

canes Wuoos Associate
§. Nuss intervere if ethers inappropriately access oF dise ese the p2'sonal or
health information of gersons who cre reco'vng cr have prev cushy

10._ In the use of social media, nurses safeguard the 2”'vacy and conf centia icy o*
person: and otter cal ecgues {CNA, 20121

V1. Inallereasof practice, rurses safegua’ctheimpactnewand amergngtec nclagis
can have on patient prvacy end condentia ity. professional boundaries,
and the professional irege oF idividtal rursas and the orgar zations in which
they werciCNA, 2012). They ae alsa sersit've 2 athical conduct in their use
lector records, ensuring accurate 1 aid avo cing the talsiteation
avalerat on et doc arentacian.

F. Promoting Justice

‘Nurses uphale prrcip esaf ust ceby sefequarcing human rights, ecutyard fairness
ard by promoting t7e public good.

Ethical responsibilities:

1. Nurses do aot d ser inate on the basis of a pe’sovs race, ettricity. culture,
caltical and spirtua beiafs, socal er ma‘ital status, gerder, gerd” ident ty,
sencerexaressian, seal or entation, eq2, health status, plece o* a gr lfestvle,
mantal or physical ability, sacio-eeonemie status, ar any cer attrib.

Nurses “espa:
ar oulated in the Inuch avd Heconeifation Gormission ¢
in Apion (2012,

the special aistary anc interests af ndigerous Peop es as

Canada's (IHGI Gails

3. Nuises relvain ror jurging, lana ling, signal ving ad hariiting behaviewns
Laveard persors reneiving vare or inward o.her ea Ih-tare previeers, s.aslants
sal eat ol

4. Nusescli no, engage rary form ef yhg, piniviment av alse rary “aru

tnasua. ealmier. o° aetion hal is inuriere or degrading. Trey re“use to be
comglicit 1 such ehasiours, They intervene, and Hey reert such Lelenigursi
bserved or if reasorable arcun: fo suspect their occurrence.

axis

5. Nursvs provide cers for ell persons including those seen as vets endfor
abusers and refrain ‘rom ary ‘crm af workplace bullying ICNA, 20182},

6 Nurses nake fairdcisions abaut the ellocation of resources uader their cantrel
asec a0 the neads of persons “eceiving care, They aduccate for fair treatr er
and feir distribution oF resources,

(Gode of Ethics “1 Fi:

Mee
7. Nursosadvacate forevide we informeddee sian trukingin ter practioe nalading,
for exarrple, evicence for bast practces in staffing and assignment, best care “br
particulerealth conditions anc best aparcaches tc health promotion,

8. Nurses work collaboratvel

te develop a moral community. As par: of this
commarty al nurses acknawledge their esponsibility to cor-iaste ta postive
and healtw practice envi-orments, Nurses support a climate of rust taat
Sponscrs operress, encourades the act of qLestcnng tha stetus quo and
supports those wine sa2ak ott n gan “ait ta eed ¢.. whistle-
blowingl, Nurses: wolecl wisle-bene
une‘ Ibe erie,

G. Being Accountable

uses ata atcountanle fer their action

1d answerable ta che practice.

Ethical responsib

jes:

41. Nurses, as members ofa salf-requocing pression, practise according :c the
values end respersiiities it the Coee anc in keeping with te professional
scandards, avs and regulations supportrg ethical practice

2 Nurses are honest and practise wich integrity in all af cheir pre‘essional
Imaractions. ursas represert thamselves cleatly with respect zo name, tite
and 08,

Nuss praccisa wichin Ue linits af Lair corpezanca, When aspects of ca
haynrd thei evel el earmpecenee, they seek action inter natin ar knowledge,
efor x Theit supenw’sor a varnprLr i praca one arugor regues. aliens
veqrleassignrryal. br Fe mean ig, rursesstomes nis pers recaiving eae

wut anp lense is eva ele

4. Nursus are aueauitably for Air sractieg nel ork Inyetliar as pert of teats.
Whor Jue acuity, complexity ar variability of a person's walth cordon
increasas, surses assist eae’ other iLPNAPEL eta. 2014}

canes Wuoos Ausocat
Nurses meiatai their fitness to practise. IF they arc aware the- they da no:
havo che necessary physical, mental cr emational capacity to praccise safely end
omaster-ly, they withdravs from the g-ovisicn cfcare after consvlting wich thet
employer. If they ere self-employed, trey arrange fer somecre alse tc attend te
their clients’ heeltv-ca'e neads, Nurses than teke te necessa’

Nurses are attentive to signs that cal
ta parton chit dtes. n sche casa, nurses wl cake the necessary steps to
the selely 0” pasans esaieng care see Acer

ing care Is recuester the: is in enntlc
lus bul ir kee 1g ih pre
ingassitaal, ceimpelel ad seal cara unl allerral a cae aan yeas
cane pe ee ut wary in the Crinieal
Code compels un individ.el to prov'ce ur assist 'r providing medical assistance
in dying. I nurses can ercicisate a eanfict wich the’ sonse'enee, they matty
thair emaloye's 0” persors receiving care {if the nurse is sel-erpleyect in
advance so alte-native arrangemer-s can be made Ise Aaa2dx Bt

with the rurse’s moval bella
sssamal acticn, J nurse srovides sale,

1 i aes eels deste

Nursesice tifyand ade:
sonic

onflicts of interest. Theycisclose actualornoterticl
sof interest thet arise in their professiona aes and relationshias ard
them ir the interest af the needs and concems ef persons race'v'rg care

Nurses shere tha’ knowlecge and provid feectack, mentorship and qudance
fr te pratassioval development of nursing students, aavice rurses. other
nurses are cher neal -care ravi Ise Appendix Bh

Nurses advocate for mae comprehensive and equitable mental
servitas ners aga giaup

sine nackgiaunecs ara gacgraph

(Gods of Ethies “1 Fsi:

Nao
Part Il. Ethical Endeavours Related to Broad
Societal Issues

Ethical nursing practice addresses broad aspects af social justice that
are associated with health and well-being, Tis aspuels ave “versed on
iimy-ov'ry systems ard sucictel stuctures tooreate greeser vy ty for a, Fivivually
and collective y, nurses @ep abreas: of current issues ard concerrs and a’e strong
advocates for fa raolicies erd aractices. “hey can do se ay

1. Acocating for publicly administered heelth syscems thet ensure access bility
universality partabil-y and comprehansivenass inne ealth-cara sry ces.

2 Utilizing -he principles of aviary health cete for the bereft of che public anc
patsons recelving care.

Recognizing ane working 3 address a'ganizatianal, sccial, economic and palcal
factors that interce healt and wel bai hin te contexte ses oles in
Loe delay a ce

hal. hcaresenvices al ne igh. ine
det. Ths carlin a.m inches baeallh arcmin,

4, Agyorasiagfora ul eontinuam al acces
inthe ight plete, by trig at
dlisnese prueertig and dieyuastc, esluralivy,cehebilitative ara pli

ius 1 Hospi, 0

wo ore

ing homes, hom war era the corm

Rocagy zing the snificence of soc! eetarn rants oF hyalth are avyocsing
for policies end arogrems that address thom lag, sefe Howse, supervised
consumption sie

6, Maintaining an awareness of major Health concerns. such 2s poverty, inadocuate
she <2 food inzecuity and v clone, wile wer ing for social justice rdividvalhy
and with others! and advace:ing for laws, pelcies and procedures that bring
about ecuity

king with pecel
health-care choices.

and advocating for expending the range of evailasle

re team members anc arofessional
10 urethical haath and social pales,

8. Collaborating with other hea th.
arganizations to advocate ta
legis ecian anc regu tins

canes Wuoos Associate
§. Recognizing (at vulnerable groupsin socicty are systemivclly visudver-ayed
which cods ta dintrished healch anc well-teingl, and cevacating ta improve
thair qua icy of life wtile tek rp accion to cvercome bar”ers "3 18a th cere.

10. Prometirg she partisisation of persons cons ¢a’ec ‘noopable in consenting to care
in the hea thetelated discuss'ors and dec'siens trat affac: ther ‘e-., rincrs,
Fe’sors with impaired rental furction,

11. Callrg onal lave s0°goverrment=9 ac:
health in Caneéa ane to ‘mplement heat
Indiganous apople ta imareve thelr

dpe the curren

rhs and take actions

45, 2015.

12, Supporting environmental preservat’or and restoration while advocating for
initiatives tha: reduce enviramentelly harmtul practices in orter to orn
health end well-being

te c* ladigencu:
th

13, Acuorating ir the fiscass"en al ethical issues armor
rs reokiving were ane: slants,

laulsalop thvirasen aad ethers’ eae

heal. hare games,
1 elvical vl ection ari werkirg
uss af athies in practise

near

14. Raintaining awareness n° briader global health worieris, such as wolal ras 0
han righ wank! Hunger, gewer inequities er onviormencal sanges
sand sercing end advocating (ney Gua ly and with athersl te Lrg agou change:
toca ly ane glcta ly.

15. Adkocuting for exceleree iv galiative and end ef life core und far galiative
cre options trat ere aveilable cal at home, ir leng-term care, re
and hasa'c2 care

16, Becoring we Formed about ews e.g, safe cartacepian, medial assistence
in eying) and ad and working wth others to create pclcies and
processes that prove ethical quidance taal nurses,

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Glossary

‘The glassary is intended fo provide nurses with a comman language far
their reflections, discussions and actinns related to nursing ethics. shiv
niet necessary prevcing fermal defi ors, Le ylossery presents information in
meat te be ve pul and zee

manne and language tat

‘Advance care planning: er oxqaing process of refectian, cormunicecion ere
dock mentation recerding a erson's values and wishes 7a” future healt and gersanal
care in the event trey beco~e incapable c* ea sant'rg to or refusing treat-tent 9°
other cate, Conversatiors ta inferm heel--cere groves, army and fiends — and
espec ally a substitute dacisia’-maker — are regularly reviewed and peated. Such
ors allen

or

larly wees “ar fulure care aud opis “tw Ut ene a
lite, Al ention st aso ha paid lo yoda flava legal and veallk gular
TENA, Cansslian Fosa’ve Pall iv Care Aseucialion [CHPCA], & Caneel er Hospice
Pallecive Care Kurses Group ICHPC NCL, 20151.

Advooate: active y suppartinga righ=end gcd cause; support rg o-hers in speaking
“ar themselves or speaking 07 bef af chase who camat speck fer themselves.

Boundaries: a basdary 11 the rufse-perscn ralationshia ‘8 the point at which
the relaticnstip changes ftom grotess‘orel and thavapel.ti to Urpratessiana anc
perseral Gal ege aru Assredation al Ragislerec Nursas ol Alher.a [GARNA), 2011,

se prafesinna
Bullying: isco wortatace tetingt

Capable: neing abe to snde’stand and epprec te the consecterces o* various
prions and make infor ned decisions about a7e's own life, care and trectmen

Collaborate: to auld ccnsensus end war togather en commen goals, processes
and auteames (P80, 2006}

Colleagues: I heal h-nare ro

ders and nurses wnrkiny 1 all dorrains ol pretive

Compassionate: thy avlicy to revognicy and be aware oF ne suffering and
valneraatity ef anocher, caualed with a eormitmet ta respond with exnactence,
kaow ecge and sidl

canes Wuoos Associate
Competency: the intogretod crovladge, sks. ueyment und allributss equired &
e rurse to pracise safely ard echically ina designatec role and se-ting.(Actributes
irelude. but are no: liitad to, attitudes. va Les and bale*s}

Confidentiality: 1 ethical obligat'on <a keep somecre’s person
mnaticn secret oprveze fry & Jchnscenz, 2028,

nd privece

Conflicts af interest: 0c
‘esr teed upon sub. fs gol sr thr
inle-vsl of elhers wo night aealfeloe [Oboe & Rain Zouch vl, 7003; CN, 2017

cu wiben Ihe nurse ailher mekes aris ina posi.ian sn make

’s boa best ress, wl ln kes.

Conscientious objection: a sitvation r which a qurse in‘arns their ermpleyor
ebcuta confit of conscience ane the neec to re‘rain ro'n previdiag care because a
practice cr arocad.re cor Tics with te nurse's meral ae iafs {CRNBC, 201 fi

Conscious: the staze c*beirg eware of and attachin

or action.

on

importance to s bevaviour

Consent: the voluvlary agieemen. (a sme asl or purndse made ay a capable
inlividea. Grileria for conser ingute bie porsor ar substi decision-maker
boing acocuaaly interme erd ding eapally of g sing ar refusing! eonsor withow
coorcion, fave cr risreprosontatior {C7NEC. 2017ah

Culture: "the lear ved velues. beliefs, norns and svey of life that influence en
rdividua’s thinking, decisioas and zcticns in cartain ways” ICNO, 2LU8a, p. I.

Diversity: the variation setwae pecple 1 terms of @ range c* fectors such as
ehincily natioral argh, ena, cender, gente ery, gerd exc ession, ailily, age,
physical enaracteristcs, 2igion, values, belies, seal exer alion, scie-eronomic
to fle express NAD, 7007

Duty to provide care: nurses ‘ae a arofessionel duty cme a Lega abliyation we
provice gersons receiv'rg care with safe, comactent, compassisnate and ethiccl
care. Tree may be some cirsums-anses in wstich it is ccceotad e for a nurse te
‘withdraw fram care provisions or to refuse to provide care ‘see Appendix & CRNIC,
201 fb; CRNNS, 2014,

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Equitable: veterriniry fa mess on the sas'so° poss e'snevs.“his wears that those
she are less fortunate wou c rocaive more resources thar tiase whe are wall af

Equity: in Feclth care, the “ull ment af eech ‘rdividua’s needs as well es the
individua’s oppercunity te react full potertial es a wumer being. | eekh ecuity
occurs wien everyane has er eppercunity ta ’each thei full ater al, end na one is
fisadvar-aged (or achieving this aatential betause of Ler sncial posi tinn or eka
socially alerting circumstances (OKA, 2013},

Ethical work environment: 21 vavirairugn! wits Is po.cilia to pramale mal
integ“ty ard oral agerey ly. Veatch, & Taylar 2011)

Ethics: ¢ brerch of philasaphy chat deals wita questiors of right and wra1g ard af
ccught ane cugat rein ovr interactions wits otters

Ethies model: a severe snowing areas for revecticn en en individua’s practice
and providing staas in ethical cecision-making. Normal y, this madel incudas critical
fuigstians lo cons ter in Tecting a1 or in dealing wth an ethical situation.

Everyday ethies: lw swrses psy al-vlion 1p his tarrying out their garmmon
Usily interactions, ine Leng haw they epprsach (ir areetive and reflech en
cthical carmn tirents ta persons receiving care ar wth healt -care noes,

Fairnass: equalizing people's 29aortunii ta participate inend enjoy ie. given “hei
circum: ‘Caplan, Light, & Daniels, “E89}, and society's equ teble cistributio
of es0,roes (ir healt care -his eans an expectat or af equitable treatmartl

Family/famities: i1 ma-ters al caregiving, laily
ified by Ihe parsan reeving er in need a can

recagrived as thase pean e
ppor,
sabe a er rel The iar ters lagal session
rmgking it mus! be nolod Lal provincial ociststion is wal urifar euros Ceres and
my inelucky a1 aafyation to revagnice Frrily memae’s iv a oily aecuring te het
biologie relat orship iCNA, 199%

wha. arovide “ania

1s. bing etbalvashiig, Hose

Fitness to practise: al the qualtias and capabiirias of er individua relevant to
thei practice as ¢ nurse, including but not liteé ta Feedom “torn any cagnitive,
phys'ca,asycholegical or emerioval cendition and deaa dence en aloo or drugs
that inpelts tre ality 7a 2’act'se nursing (CHNES, 2008; CHNNS, 20171

canes Wuoos Associate
Global health: (ve “vptimal wel being of ull Fumans From thes ‘ndiv'cual and he
callective perspective.” Heclsh is cansidared “a funcemertel right and shculd be
ecvelly access ble t9 al” (CNA, 2003a, p. 2.

Health: 2 state of complete avysical, mertal ‘soTitual} and social wel-taing, no:
rere ythe abserce o disease iCNA, 2C°Be; Werld|lealth Organization [Wtf], 2006}

Health-care providers: al those whn are volved in previting rare; they may
‘renee pre esionsls, perseral ears alluurans, lian support suorkors ate as
oN, 1994),

Hoalth-care team: a numso" af haalth-ca’e provide’s “rom iffsent ¢sciplina:
Ieften insudirg soth regulated prefessiona s and unregulated werkers\ werking
ogether to orovide care for and with aarsors, families, q’ouos, communities or
populate.

Health promotion: 2 c3it ruing process of enabling peaple to ineease ter contre!
er and in prive hair haalth and wal-being

Human rights: tes “ghls o° seve as express inthe Canadian Chat tor af Rigs
sere Frodo $871 and Lie United Netivns rivers! Boor fi
1946}, and as rocarded in the CMA pasician statement, Begistered Nurses, Healt
and Huan Rights [2011

Incapablefincapacity: failing +c understand che nature of che treatment:
Cecisions 10 22 made, es wall as the cors2quences c* covsertirg to teatment or
ceclining treat nest

Informed consent: the prasess ef giv'rg permissien or mek're chases abo
rears I is kastel on kx ga hues eri an elhieal principle ef respoet “a au
ivi ’s right lo sulcior information Ia mek dscisiens ebcul ¢a’e, Lcalmer
fend involvement in research, In he Cowie Loe terme if
prima’ ly usec to emphesize the choice involved,

cd

Integrity: adherence to meral nerms thetis sustared aver ime, Impl et iv intagrity
's sourcress, trustworthiness arc she consistency of coryet‘ors, ections and
emctions (Jurkrer:, Nathaniel, & Walzen, 2018,

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Job action: activiies widertaken by snivn mz bers to express d sagreviment wth
thei’ 219 oyer’s or governrer's Eclicies or laws. Suen activ ties could include going
cn scrice, work slowdowns, wark9-1u , picketing end atver pratest actors.

Justice: rc udes resaecting *he rights of ates, distributing resources fai’, and
preserving and a-oro-ing the commen good che goad ofthe cormmurity

Medical assistance in dying: “al the adininis.raling ny @ mecical prantiiane
fer Purse rant ian ila subsbanes lett porson, al wir yess, Hh sau i
Utes Leepres bing a previving ya nedival practioner er arse practi fate
bf a sugsianee ba a ge'so%, ¢: tlie request, se lal thoy rey se T admirister the
scbstance and in doing so ccuse treir own ceath” ("An Act to Amon the Crimi
Codes. 24° eb

Moral climate: in wealth care, the ‘rplicit and axplict values that ve health-
care deliv2" in wien care 's delivered (Hodes, letra
Doane, Storch, & Yareoe, Z006i,

Moral community: a workplace whert values ave male slaar anc ara shaved,
ober dust vaues dive ethigal actor ang setere inciv‘euals “wel she lb
heart Ialaated from Rodnoy, Buckloy, Sirvel, Sereno, & Merlin, 20131, Canerone
besser public professzd values and the ized reclity is necessary for ths’e to be
a gendire moral community {Webster & Bayl's, 2000,

Near miss: a satints
Callasorating Pertes I

vincent thet dd net raach the petient”thnc cert ina ys's
P2012. p. Bh

Nurse(sh: ir th’s code, the ters
ses ancl ml o ave vegisleret or inensedl in exter las, san as nurse
practi,

taved ours ing ude ragisterect

Patient safety incident: “or event or ereuinsteree wei cuuld ey resulted,
tid result, in urnecessary varr toa paciz tt may be a harnfuline'der=, a no-7a'm
jent or a war miss ACP. 2012, , Bl

Persons receiving eare: er ind vidvel, fami, qroup, community. populat or a”
system chat accesses t1e servicas of the aurse; may alsa be “eterrad ta esa cligwis)
residants| or gate

canes Wuoos Associate
Primary health care: “s ahilaseelny avd approach the: is “rsegral ty irpraving
che heelth ofall people ivirg in Canace and t7e efectiveress cf healta service
celiveryin all care settings. FHC focas2s 09 -he wa services are delivered ard pu
che people wa “ecelve those serv'ces at the centre of care, [Cssercal orincigle
irluda access bilty: gctive audio perticipatian: healch pramat'or eré. chrenic
cisease prevention and management: use af approavietetec-79 ogy and innovation:
loral sooperation ant <ellaboratiay” IGNA, 2015; p. Th

ri ters

Privaoy: [1 yiysival a'vaoy is Ihe r'ghl ar Guleres 1 eonleliry or fii.ing he
eens of ullars ba aesll; (1 infermationél privacy is be “igh. uf tnd ides be
ce-urwire huss, aiken, with shor aml for iskat aurposes ay of “he persorl
bo saree, A aerson has a reasancble expectaticn ef ar'vacy r che
Feclth-cere system so that 12a tr-care providers ssho need! their information wil
share it only wich tase w79 recuire spec fic itermatar.

Professional houndaries: “the spaces between the nursa’s power and the
cients wulnaraaiiny. Ihey separate tr trerapeut'e behav of the nurse trem
ich wallinlentionad ov no: cowl kassan the berelil ol gare

behavinr

{oa'sersl. 3ounda'y wassings are bial eata'sians ae-ass bowdatias .Pet may he
recur Ihoughlless or caer surselu core ip rel speci erage tic
roed.... A boundary seat on ise ae of abuser hy nursv-per sti realionshi
ICARNA, 2011, pp. E81

Public good: the q204 of socie-y or the comunity, o*ten called the common goed,

Quality practice environments:
are vuman support al ocations ns
fare (GHA % CANU 2715)

ice arvitonnersthat have the organizationel
assary for se‘e, camaatant and etal rursing

Solf-reflection: Ir: abilily 1: uel ano's xe
relalor 1a ethical re

Tvagh plus ul atts i
sities and v heal guideline.

Social determinants of health: “tie condi:ioxs r whier people are 3'n, ox
live, warkeand age. reluding the health system. Tyese circursstances are staped ay
she cistriauton of money, power and resources at global, rariova ancl lacal levels,
which are themselves intuanzed by poli ‘4, para. Wh

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Social justice: Ue fair vistriuticn vf scvicty’s honefts and -eyaons bilities anc
thei’ onsecvences. [: focuses on the relative pos ticn of ane sacial grip in relation
i saciaty-as wel as or the root causes af d sprit natean be done
ta giminate them (CNA, ZILah}

Social media: a group of nterne=besec epplicatiens and tec volegies that facilitate
ha creation and sharing 0° infrimaton, ideas. career rer
expression v8 virwal cammurilies amd reworks. Stcial media elas social
nr parkiry, rare iris, chal sooms, Iecingyinsten sss, blag,
string fideo and ail and vt wares ICN, 70127

ss and ocher feems al

ute decision-maker: a c2039.¢ person w/t che legal authoricy to mako
re vectmentar withdrawal of sreatment cetisions on beha fan incagaa &
perscr. Each “urisdiction hae its own guidelines related <a sbstitute darision-
making and instr sctionel ciractives for treater: and care, Terns a so differ across
provinces and teritories. Vurses weed to becorne fem with t12 ters used! in
thei co jurstlet ens CNB, CHAGK ate, 2018: SNA, Z01Bal

‘Therapeutic relationship: 4 relaliership Ihe ruse eslanlishas av orain.eins
vith « olen, hreugh (Ine use o° prufessioal kuewlodge, skills aud altitudes, 0
borer ¢ provide mursiny vare bal is veaucled lo cer ribule to the cliew's x
boirg IGARNA, 2011)

Unregulated care providers: aid providers
by a egulatory body {SPINBC, 21:0

fhaarereither licensed rer epi

Values: rationaleareaot on atthe dasirele;estenda’cor lity thatisesteemed,
fasted, ane cnnsinerad important, Values are axpiescael by hehaviors a slandancs
2 Iypitaly crgenived 0 8
bere systor al iprrlarns Une inva” Fr, ea, 8 Tage, 217. A

hal a persor andorses <r Wes ta maintain, Yalu

Violence: inciuecs ony abuse af poser, maninulstian ar control by one person
over encthar that could result in nentel, emetianal, social ar physical harm. Tie
descripcors af types of violence ere nterpersonal v'elence and structural via erce.
The formers natter of persan--o-person cr persor-croua vicle ce. while te atte
is about system acic ways hat social st‘sctures. orcenize-ions and rstitu‘ians vam
or narginalize people (4, 2016,

canes Wuoos Associate
Vulnerable groups: yrauss 1 sutivty wliy arc systetraticully ciseuvantepce ina
sey the: leads <0 a risk o* emotional or physical herm: in health care, herms ere
related te diminished heel-h ard well-ae'rp {Ckerle & Raffr Bosctal, 2008)

Well-being:
shel atities,

Il, canten- and abla to make the mast of

persan’s state af azing w

Whistle-blowing:r2acrling the uathical  unsale prac ice ol nu'sing enl eacuk
reli ie th-taro crotussitwal or sucl hiagsas eres, beeen, ag ite
br pativat akust (Qaerle & Ratu Pouch, 70091 This autor would tue rosurlsd he
orly aflor a porsor Fas unstecasstully usoe all appropriate exgaYzationel vharnl
ce igha wrong ond 1as¢ scund moral ustiicaticn for taking this action (Su rkherdt,
Nathonie, & Waltan, 20181,

Includes asheviours such as verba abuse cr threats cf var
1, darnzaning remaris,intmidaticn re andeimiig, as wel 3s
subtle seraviours such as veftsing to cocperate, teing unavailable to give
perleimance are aking the'r work ei el
‘Workplage bul yng is he Len nave ase! Tor wal ws previously dese bet as
trina oF Isto violen, wre place responsibly oly am inv al
ce wet the rosporsbilly af erga iestons GNA, 79° Ee}

‘Workplace bully
continual cite:
rer
assistance, hamae’ rg ano

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Appendix A. Ethical Models

An Ethical Model for Reflection: Questions to Consider
Ihe Coa points tothe eed to” arses ta engage in exical reectien end dlscussion
Fratreniiks or eels can help aeaplenider Laer approech ta ar atv ea pram
brecricktn aril bie 1 be a asa tg muses in Iie inking ale
parloula issu ce quest on

\When itis epprepriate, solleaguesin nursing and otherd'scip ines, sthics committees,
cthicists, professionel murs i colleges o° nurses ar other exert
vill be included in discussions of etricel problems. Lecislaior, standerds of prect'ce,
Policies and guidelines c* nurses’ snicns and arafessiorel assoc cians and col eges
may alsa 28 useft| in ethicel raflac-ion are decision-making,

kthinaltlccon fina begins witha ravi ne’s

neties and jadgrier} is

requir at ele-raine In a Hits elu responsi ly sais ra paral
ring exulexl. Ter is ram hin Ts presi for isagracr ral aren nurses
aval hy ceitiog weigal of different» hixal aus anc prin ples. Mp there crus

proaosod intervention may ae cchical und “eTeetivs of aod ethical pract te, Diseussion
an! quest eng are extre-nely helef in the resolut‘en o ethical problers anc iss.es.

Cthical models can faci -ate ciset ssior among tear” members by opening vpa ma‘al
space for eva"yone 70 perticipate in the corwersat on ebout evhics. Tere are mery
models ar 2t1'a reflection ad fo” ethical decis cr-making in te heeth-cere ethics
Itevature, and sore er these ate nated! th mn. Ih Pode provid hee
vas selected becal.se t prnmates “etection,ef‘ais a nurs rg mada tor cersidaring
ries istesin practic and is applica e sia types al elhical situations

hie Bie uy oN Fer hs rl SQN PIR

canes Wuoos Associate
Oberle and Raffin Model

Questions for Ethical Reflection
1. Assessing the ethics of the situation, refationships, goats, beliefs and
values

hat relationships are inherent r the situation?

‘= Whois sigticant i this sere situation, and Fovy

uld they be invelved?

Arc my relationships wich others in tv's care sitvaticn supportive and
surturing?

«Wheat are the goels ef eave in by s Walia?

© re these goals shared iy Ie person in care, he nurse are: ethers?

hat are my bale‘s and values?
= What va vesin te Code ae inhrent in this situatior?

What values are important for vthe-s in the
care providers?

ituator, including other

wa

© De the individvele ryolved in she sitvesin Have diferent values? Dy che
dd florenees eree:e exnit?

2 Reflecting on and reviewing potential actions: Recognizing available
choices and how these choices are valued
= What expectat or does “he persorfarnyvcommunity haw fo” cere? Whe
actions do the person /farily’=omma ty think wil do t1e most goad? lave
| helaed this perscn‘farily/sommun ty became clear aoout what thay
value and te actions thay t1rk will be caken?

What actions! da. tainkwillda tie mos: gece? Wre-do ther hecth-care
aviders think?

‘= What actianis ill cause che least arrount ef velue cor Fiet ancsor moral
distress? What are the potential consequences cf the actions? low will
ey pe’sans 02 affected?

= What valves eces sae
ita exoectations o

y view as imporcant in his situation? What cre
ra?

Wheat coonotrie and pultival facta’s play a rele the person's cure? Whar:
‘actions are possible given che axisting resources cre corstraints?

(Gode of Ethics “1 Fi:

Mee
hal ocislation upplies to cis situaton in tents o° wy vbtgations, the
inst tusiov obligations and she obligations of ater hea th-care providers?
‘Are there legal implications ford fferent act ors?

2. Selecting an ethical action: Maximizing the good

ileal co sl pac is ees aio?

‘owrmunity’s eve? Ihe choice at
‘take?

# Car 1 suppart the patiawsstamiys
lho car roviders? Io, ral aon dL

+ Ate tere constraints that might prevent me “ram taking ethical action?

= Jo have the kind of virtues vequited to teke echical action? Do Ihave the

knowledae and skill?

necasse
et? Wl

= Do [have the moval courage to cerry ob the ection De ieve is

be supportec in my dec's cr?

4. Engaging in othical action
* Aim Lacting ceeard rg to the Cove?

© url practising th ay a reagan y yade! nurse woul prac ist i this
siletion?
dan Latting with cara are: crmpeassian (tay realionships wilt ethers in

Ibis sitvalion?

Amn L-neeting protessionel and ‘rst urcinva expectations in this action?

5. Reflecting on and reviewing this ethical action
+ Did Ireporcitthraugh the aoa-opriate charnels?

Were te oLteomes of tis cet cr aoveptcble?

* Was the prevess of dov’s'en making and cetior aeeeatable? Bid all involved
band va uel?
. ss lie persenfaraiyeonmmurity affected? Hose wnste: Une ee
jors eee?
© Were harms minimised are was gand rein sed?
© What etd Ido well?

hat might heve been dane di‘ferant y?

canes Wuoos Associate
Other Models and Guides for Ethical Reflection and Decision-
Making: Resources and Applications
Sacra ave sels For wea efecto ado siet-meaing ae" wear us
‘Nurses fil thet some mula ere hol in garcular eres of practice te, in
ecute care practice, long tem cere, public heckhl end the: same mm
meaningful to ther thay otters.

dels ore rome

Many mocelsincludethefoura’rcilesoftiamed ta ethics respectfo’autarorn,
bereiverce, nen-malefcance and justice — which some curses fhe! pracicel
because thase mecels ray bridge 2 omedical erd nutsing exhcs m acuta care, Some
Purses pleter a medal chat otters a elagrar rather than tax; tor axamp e dlagram
wea gun and Sloreh CARMA, 701. hers cree a nue resp

besed mesie, sara tha. afenex by Ye, Muashouse, Khan ard Rusty 2010}

4 Toor key sourees ere I sted bel

CNA’s Learning Modules: Bringing the Code of Ethics to Life" provides a
conve ent wav to nzcome far erst teva ves rd responsio ities at the hear:
oF ethical nung prectce and how te epely trem in everyday worsing sceraria
Inere ae ath I2a°71rg modules: ane fer ecch c* the sever piety vaues athe
Cad, pus an addition mocula on soc lj

ice

# Povidiny see, camerassio tale, eompelerl ane brea kare

© *rorozing nealth and wel

hang

= voroting and respecting informed do

= Honau’rg dignity
Maintaining pris and ort! by
+ omoring juste
+ Being accountable

= Socal justice

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Framework for Ethical Decision-Making idovelayed by chal MeDona
sch additions a‘ovided by Patricia Radey arc Rosale Starzanski i 20011 provices
detaied questions ta cans cer ‘r ethical dacision-rakrp. 17's fratework uses
ethical prne ples co develoa quest cns similar to thos in Ob2” end Raffin Bouchal
12009), bu: 12 principles may give ceeper meering toe vature af the qu2st

ian,

Concepts and Cases in Nursing Ethies rst cavelcpec in 1995 by Ml. Yer anc
A. Mlnarhiasel prevces a way Io ink Hough ethical srobleans using Ihre Iyp so
auatyis fear, rere alan tors sor Ye cl, 701

Using chica esaurees to evoluate alternal vas: Prine plesfeawcep

ras Ue ge
interme aueler super al? What sxplici ar inplicil praise
rece ta the persvi?

1 been

© Autmcrny: Wha does the person want? Hear

Irn bean

© Nerervaisertes WU tis han he persia? Os?

© Berefcence: Wil ti's bere’ te persor? Cthe

= Just ce: Consider the roerasts o* al those involved ww have tabe taken
inte eocaunt (including the persani, Are biases abcut the persen er farily
affecting your decisionsraking? Treat like decsiors alice

‘= Fidel: Are yeu fostering tvust tthe aerson,“amily/tear1 relat orstips?

© Care: Will the person and femily 3e supporice as they do
‘anc Urcerteinty? What about amy mera d'stress of tecm members?
princiglas of the pelletive care ageroach can be incarad
alternative

= Relationel cuconarny: What relationshis ane st-uetures 2’e affecting the
‘ar ots individvals involvec in tre situation? How can these relationships
‘ane sacia st'uctu’es b2 used ta enabe support of che persen, farily
rrembers and health-care provides?

canes Wuoos Associate
Appendix B. Applying the Code in Selected
Circumstances

Responding Ethically to Incampetent, Non-Compassionate, Unsafe
of Unethical Care

Nurses ques:ien, Hlarvene, report and addiass ursale, ren-cempessinnate,
thi or incomrpe: nl seacties a eanifi's a ier Fre. dnt ability
Fa provide compas oral, soimpelenl and alti care, and they supper
‘hase wna do hs sama, UA

Nurses are vo7est and cakea | necassaryactiens to a’evant ar minimize aat er:
se'ety incidents, nay leer “ram near missas anc work wit ates ta raduce
Ue poten ia bor Lulure vss and pregenteble arin. LAB}

Nurses intervene, and repart wher nazessary,* when cchers fail terest
the dign'ty of a pesan they are caring for or @ celleequa {nclud ng students}
recagi 2ire thats be silent anc pass is “a condone the baaviatr. They spaa
up. taclitate conversation and adjudicate dispt.tes, as appran”2-2/taquirad.

Nurses, as members of a se f-egulating profession, praccise according ta he
values end resporsitilities + the Code ard t keearg wth the a-ofess rel
Wards, laws er¢ regulations supa0-tig ethical prectice, [E1)

Nurses ane allentive to signs thal el page is wtb, foe wha ever rear,
ty perform vir duties In such & vase, nurses will “ake ths necussary
protect the scfety of po-sans recving eave, ICE:

ops te

1a nurse stares lan

re hare by undereye 8 a BA i
irvine Far, the aurse lakes inruetiale slaps in prot. (he sae.y ar vigniy ol
hha parsons reaciving ears, Sar pxcan sof gp propriaas turtle: sles in sess 0
tua a irmincnt harm could ine ud, autare ret Firitee te, speacng up ifa patente
crror in dug calevlations questien'ng ar une car ender, incevening te
prevent ursafe restreint practices aorctirg patients when acolleacue's serfermenze
eppea’s to be impa'red for any reason (see CANS, 21/4 3 irte-venirg ina secu:
breach of confidertiality invelving 2eople wit’ saxua ly rans-itted infect ens. Nurses
re aware of provincial and teritarial ecislatian ane nu’sirg practice starcards th
ray reluds d'res‘ion regerding disclesure ane reperting ane provide “uther clarity cn
whether there isa clea risk l Fnrinaat harry

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
orvaunters tuations we vermis nt imminent but theres aatetial
“or Form, they work to resclve the problem <s directly as possible in wavs that
are consistant with the gooc of all parties. As they wrk throug) thase s tuations,
nurses review relevant staterrerts ‘t the Code and athe’ relevant standeres,
legislation. ettical quidelres. policies and 2°ocedures fo” repersing incidents 0°
suspected ircompatent a” sret‘'al cere, including eny lega ly raaartable ettence,
4 naragement.

When nurs

Add nual avis “wr musias Wo eerwider, iM Fray tht rk vontrasore: ex ert
‘ular pre“sssiunal slandarcs x aroving'e ut toritrial kolo “relck
Maintain high evel of cafe lity bout the situs sa tins al
alltires,
© Feviiow all inferuation avallalee ahaul tet eure silualicn, Sepa

persoral fru professionel issues. Ceacent i vee Inaior al Fad

© Where apprepriate and taasihle, seek ieieimation civactly “ram the

calleaguelsi whosa nahavicura” pretties nas rais ens

+ Pay attention to the moral distress nursas et experiencing in “rng

fine a7 etnical sourse of action. Gons'cer che risks et ret “eking act’ 10
ues, sel, avd Ihe aigarival or ad rele
in ust tha oul ras i 0 ation

vanes and breaches

Nuss else: cons vor Iles eorspetonans Fal ry dee “se Lg
dane “ar ovhers in Faking various coursys af ator

© I possine, speak with an irpar ial and In.ster co league salside the
sili ohn sere appropri: saul infeaion and al

walls or rule ob {Lhe exclusions being drew

© Sook ielermatian Irom awa, aba Tes e.g, supe sar oe manager)
fon rxpeelil roles: ancl ress siailins for all 6° the parlias sete shane
rosauesibiily Car nwainkaining Sele, vompolent, crimpass oni
cthiva eae.

Consul, as appropriat, with culoaguns, ocher mambuas al Fue leary,

profess‘onal
able lo assist 1

ing asociaticus ¢° cllogos, unions ar wllians who are
(essing arc resulving lhe preblor.

canes Wuoos Associate
+ Auise the uperaar ett parties regarving unresulved vonesns umd, vt
feas ble. ir‘arn he col ecguels} in questio  o* the reason: for your ecticn
Knows wat immediate he p is avaiable -c your calleaqeis| and 92 ready
to help the colleagues! ‘nd these resources,

= Nurses sho engage in respensible reoarting af incompetent, unsafe oF
snetticel vere are s.pported by their calleeques, profes:
anda’ professiona co lega,

Ethical Considerations in Addressing Expectations That Are in
Conflict with One's Conscience

Nerves may not avaneun these in weee ef rusing
care, However. narses may soreines be oppesec © a conflict with the
certcin prececures arc practices in health care andl 66, they notify
dit aitfiu 1c willy satcipste in proxidngcare

2: others have judged ta be morally acceptab e, their employers or

Such sutions ‘nelude bu ate not lii:ed 2, hod persons receiving care
cranslusona, abarcinn, suicice altars, reusal (ifthe nurse is self=

o srra.ment and matical assstanns dying. Ihe
funs's gh! to Iie thoi cnsterae i sch
sisatons is rong it ie Cac’ praise far
conscientious objection. an he made.

const

employed) in advance so
alternative arrangements

IF nursing care is recuestec tre: is in conflict with the rurse’s ‘nal belists
and values but in keering with prefessiona practice, che nurse 2-avides safe
sompassicnat2, compet2t and at ‘cal care until alterrative care arrargemants
are in place to meet the parsas needs or cesires. But aothing in te Criminel
aie canpels an ind'vidval to a-ov'ee ev assist 1 ov'ting medical assistance
in dying. I urses can anicipate.a canis tk their canseiere, hay ntily chair
rnnplegors or persis bt i acwarnie si
allonral ve errangeies ts nb

uyuare (Ferns: 'ssell-peye
1-17)

Soveifeally, with respactta medical essistance in ey'ng, wrses eonsu tCNAYs Nationa
1 Feamevoon on Medical Assistance in ring in Conadial2016a), This frarmewer«
ides cetals aoaut tve chenges in Caraciay aw ithe Criminal Zoce af Canad

now permits medicel assistance in dying, and ce-aied quidance fer nurses,

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Steps in Declari Conscience

9 a Confli

1. Befare employment
Nursas rae # morelresaonsbilly Ip advise thir pruspcelize vmslyers
caio.sly uppasce te verlain pruvlves aid pracsiires
that cro likely te cecar in tw prospaccive workplace, particulry ithe
expression af carflct of conscience "woule significa intertere wita
te provision of services offered ay he employing agency" (RCNA, 2003
p. Tl. Similerh. emaloyers advise avosoective er-ployees about services
povided by the ergarization chat rey be se sitive far sare empl.

if bey are

2. Anticipating and planning to declare a conflict with conscience
IHaally, he nurse woul be able In antiipala prac.ices and procedures
i
xv

uld wcalo # sow ict wilh heir vorscienes tials ard values} in
o. Hv this case, tho nurse visuusses wth supery’sors, umaloyers
ar persen's recuiving cae {ifthe nurse is soll-employedl wu: types of
core the nurse finds contrcry -a their cv ae iefs anc values l.g. ering
fo individuals hay'rg an abortion, male circunision, bloce trans‘usian
angan transa erario, medical essistance 'r dyingl end ‘equ ests that their
abjections be accarmecezad, anless ‘tis an emergency situation.

43, Finding oneself caught in providing care that is in conflict with
one’s conscience

Whe one: fwks onal invitee ir uring eae Ua exealeas oxi
wilh vorstivnoy, thy ise mul fies hy saporaisor, eum ogor ar pe
reegiving ware fit sell
conscie tious objectior} crd requesting accommact-ionis ¢ s2“cus me-ter
that is not ta ke coker ightly, The nurse remains unt! erether nurse
ot healt7-care provider is aale to provide apprcpriate cere to net the
person's naeds.

nipleyet, Reelariry # cor Tet with exnscioree ter

TTA PH igs wg, ARAL

canes Wuoos Associate

ey guidlines for delary a cunfct wth eonscience iruludy the “ul oniny:
+ Nurses wld tol Lake part fv avouidry kane en the goures of
“ore abjction uorrmunica thir doses inappropriate es

‘© YWheneva possible such veltsal is made known in adkaree and in time tor
a lemnalive arreryennels lo be madi for serscris“eeesing nae.

+ Moral objectians by che nurse are motivated by meral cancems and
a infermes, “ellact ve cvpice and ara rot aased! an prejucine, t2ar or

hen @ moral aaection is made, the nurse aroudes fo the safety of che
ssa saceving are all eras assuianca that athe seusees ol aursing
cate are avaiable, In he specifi nase 0° medina assslance in syirg,
vars al Tics oe ej x patiiaicn my Be

duly lo reke an effective letra
© np opers: ane co-workers are raspensiae lor ensuing shal nurs

cand lhe 29 prserne racrive

Invelinen ane de wal experignse disrinivatio RCNA, 7000.

workers wl cenlars a sor li, a

© Nursas neer to ha avvara chat deslating a cont iet at
rolex an agains. lor ar‘V "ara pally.

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses

nse ence nay not
Ethical Considerations for Nurses in a Natural or Human-Made
Disaster, Communicable Disease Outbreak or Pandemic

Historiselhyard mute 3, wars pri’ eat a Thos in aed, se when pring
tare pul thir Ith aru fife al risk for examate, wien Ley work in
corr arcas, places of coxerty, places wth poor san tation, ete. Nu
encounter personal risk when providing cave for those wit 2 kronor unknown
cartmueatle or infect’ous cisease, However. disasters crd communicctle d'sease
cuth-eeks call “or extracrdinary effort fom al health-care persornel, including
nurses, The Code states:

ses also

[Curiag a natwal or hurren-made disaster, including a cemmunicable cisea
sulbreak, muses provilecaveu.singapprnrialasale.y precauliorsin a
weil lovislatinn, eulaticns and gutel res prasad ay terme, egal.
wniors and oless‘oral asseuiations, AS}

e
dane

battes, er players,

A duty to provide caro rafers toa nurse's prefess'cna cb igatin 9 pravide parsons
receivirg care wich safe, sompetert, comaassigvate arc. ethical cere, However,
there “ay be Some circurnstances in which itis accepteble fo” a nurse “a withda
“ram providing care or to re‘use ta prov de cere (CTINGC, Z01zb; CRNNS, 201M}
ble burden is @ cancapt ra sed in velacia7 19 te duty to prov ce care anc
withdrawing trom or ratasing to prov ce care, An unteasanad & burden may exist
oben a nusa's akii.y to provide sale rane and maa prolessewal s anctarc a
praise is cormpromistl ty unreascnalle expeclalons, lack if asters raging
Ices to persoral and Tay swell sing SAARC, 701

canes Wuoos Associate
Tre fullswiny critaria vould be useful for nurses te censider when euntemela:iny
providing cere ir a cisaster ar communicable d'szase cutareak:

the signi vance af the risk to the aerson in care i the nurse does wal ass

wether ta nurse's Toervertinn is ara:

ale

cant te plevantrg harm;

+ wrather te nurse's care wil pretatly prevent herm; and

= whether the aenefit af the rurse’sinterve t'on autwe ghs rarristhe nurse
‘vightincurend does not present more than a1 acceatable risk tothe nurse
TAMA, 2006

Nurses carefully

cansider their

professional

Wher derends on the bealth-care system are excessive,
iatz’al resources may be ‘n short supply and rursas and
cha’ a thecera provida’s may be at rsc. Nurses have
2 right to retaive tuth‘ul and complete intyrmecion sa role, their duty to
hay can fu I heie ty a provide care, Vhay haw provide care and
Lneslancing aout ct clgatiors: ar expestatians other competing
era tir a Thy mn 80 CDN MEIN Gh stions to their
chuie on teal reocs, Nurses” employers. hese .
reciprocal du-y to pretect and suppert tier a las own health, to family
10 provide necessary and suffiier: protective ecuismer: andl to friends

end supplies trat w'll “maximally min mize risk* ta nurses

erd other health-cerg previders. Mt the same time, rurses s2 cheir professiorel
“udgment to seect and use the agprop‘iste prevertior measures; sees, in
collebcration wth te health-cara teem, tne eppioptiate agency, manuractura’ ard
rvemmrent quidanes eencerring use ancl fol persenal proactive Rapier ar
cilvocala kn @ cvarye when agency, manufac ae er yoserareul gailnes, Ce:
ter th infestior eon equines gating apyroptis. ewe ar aps
pattie cqurre ORO, 70034

‘Nurses careful ycons cer their professional roe, their cuzy-0prov'ce care ard other
competing 02 igations tc the'r awn nea th, to femivand te frienes. In daing 80, they
Urderstand he steps they mignt tace both in ecvance of and curing an ema-gency
cr peréemic situation so that they are prepared for mekire ethical dec'sions iCNA,
‘2004: |hamasen, Faith, Stasan,& Upstur, 2008), Velu2 and esaons bility stetemants
in 2 Gade suano-t nis’ rettacian ane actions.

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
A. In anticipation of the need for nursing care in a disaster or disease

outbreak, nurses:

‘work togothsr wich nurse clleagues, Lrians and jaint occu paticrl hea th
and safety committees, and cthers in pos'tiors c* eadersi’p ta cexe op
emergercy response pract.ce guidelines using avai cble rescurces and
guicelines fo cova-nrerts, professional assaciations and regulatory
bodes:

learn about anc provide input inta the guide nes the ecion, ovinea
country has 2scablished regarding which persors ere ta “eceive privity in
cate{e.. priority based on greatest need, pia” ty besed ont probality
of good oc teome, at

Ile provided for these providing care and cer
| Eurden o° care

learn now suppert
the physica and na

ing

request end receive regular upcezes chout appronriaxe sofety mecsures
hurses mrignt “ake to frotect arc pravent -hemselves fram becoriing the
victin of a d'saster er cisezse

12 oping ¢ fair way ta settle contic:s a” disautes regarding
ions ° exemptions from the prophylaxis oF veccination af

ys in wshich appecls or coma cints ca be Fondled within
the cee.patienal healsh and safety farrewerk

the midst of a disaster or disease outhroak, nurses:

refer to regulat ers and guidelines orovided by gove-nwrer, ragule-ory
bod'cs, emalaye-s anc profession ossuciatiens;

holy make the fa rest decisions posite all thy a peation af resources

help se vii

sas lansarenl a -nanner as aassihle,

provide safe, compassionate, corpeent ard ethical caer cisesters, 2s

rich es circums:ances permit

help determine if, wher end how 7urses may have ta decline or witad-ay
from care: ane

advocate for che lecst restrictive measures possble when a a2°son's
inciv‘cual “chs must 92 restricted

canes Wuoos Associate

Ethical Considerations in Relationships with Nursing Students

Nurses in all oles share the esponsibility sua ting ru

sing s\uents Fu preidiry
mace’, sumyassions 1 avd alical cara, Stora salamat in Ue €
irludy specific references te student nurses ere their relatorshigs with alias in
previcing nursing exe

sal

Nurses treat each orher, colleagues, students and ot er heelth-cere providers in
a respectful manne recognizr¢ the power cif'eentials arrorg formal eecers,
colleaques and students, They wark with ethars zo Fenow digrity and resolve

differences in a construct
Nuses shere Ur krowlerye and provide leechark, uerorstip awl guidance
for ihe peafessivnal dewelymignt of musing sliclals, vite russes, viber

nurses ere wher ually cere providers, IES

nthe aasis of these staterners in tre Cody, the following guidelines cre sungestee:

# All teacher rursing stuccnt interactions arz ta be i keeping with ethical
susing practic:

6 Allrursesand muesing students Heal evel osher vi respoet ard lene
# ll nurses enceavau ie prove rursing slicers wh appropriace

guia for dk

lopmor al rursing exrupelort

© Ine primary responsibility tor the 2:
eran [al of Ihe priary 1a

igament and cara at t1e 9:
a th PRISHN as tee AS

«©  ersors receiving care are informed of the russire studew's siz
a learner: Ideally the preceptor woukl advise persons in care abou: the
‘ursing studens status and seek permission for that stucent to proviee

hee tha preceptor is able Fa speak Usa of the ursing stuke's

igre ersons, lee stud infers Ihe yes eel “ours. purr sta
to provide care, Toe porsuis righ to refuse tare ar wssiscanee arovidel by
dent to be treated with respect

© Nursing fae 1y, sreccealors ated nursing sludor.s “wee thee safely al
swe Hing af Ile [porsors in cere] above all othr objaclives, Fucludiny
fulfilling cdusc-iana obligaticns” (ONO, 20176, p. 3.

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
© Nurs'ry feeul.y and chvir administrators havour the ethival imperative or
the wellbeing of the perscnsin cara, which supersedes the resporsiality
of providing the studat wi learning agaorturities.

‘| Nursing students cre exgectec -» mee: the standares of cae “athe level
of learning. Tey edvise thei ‘aculty clinical inst ucter ard thei clinical unit
rurse supervicorsi“they darccthel eve theya'e asle to meet this expectation.

FF nursing studer:s experience cificult'es with d srespecsful actions “tor a nursalsi
in ocectice tat thay are nat able za overcome trough carwersatian wich the nursefsh
inselved, they distass these incidens wits thelr Tacu ty¢inica instructor a taling
helps autcomes trom tat discussion witvin an apntopriate par'oe, they enlist the

assis.anor aa apprap#lsrrsingecuealion ature in et nursing preyta.

canes Wuoos Associate

Acting Ethically in Situations That Involve Job Action

Job alien tny urs is olan ciretled werd sexing cond T on

pl anpligr er
hal ence the se and ulhital are af porsers raeving a, uepaeor us ful
Hi action directed tovard sich improvements ceuld Fincher persons raceiviny
vere inthe short tern, Nurses advacate for their invebveingnt r yerkphace planing
‘or tye safety c* those receiving cere before anc cLring job actior. Members of che
plc a’eclso entit ee 2 informacion about che sceps taken to ens.re the 5
persors during any job action.

Nurses planning to take job action or practising in environments whe
accion ascurs take steps ta sategua’d the aealth enc satety a parsans race
sar laring Fw noursi 1” Leo alr, (8B

(Ov the kasi a This s.r in Pe: Cove, the “al owing galtelines ane: sugges

© Rach nr unlaale Ire decisions rvser abut their acting a all
Fines‘ all cirewnstarens, including curing a legal or an ilogel slike
‘Marses Associaton uf News Rrursiiick [NANA], 2004,

© hd
sen pking ae iewplemznting my jaa act on,

dual rss ane groups: aurses saegLanl persons rev

pertivipating ino” affected dy job vetiem
share the ettical commitment ze the suety of persors thei exe. Ter
artic of respansislities may lead them te exaress this commitment in
ferent but equally cpprapriate ways.

‘= ersons receiving care whose safety ecuires orgoing or emergency nursi'q
careare anzit ed tc tave tvose needs satisfe¢ throughout awycb ection

= During jab acto. if nurses have any concern ahout their abi icy ta maintain
svactice and ethical stendards cr cheir ability to ensure the safety o°
92¢80%8 in hel care, they ere responsia € far communicating chis ca
ith ‘enttiad lines of actauntabilty so chat carective
ine NAN, 204,

in atenidane
acion ran be Laken as quickly as poss

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
References

av vicar Murs
[es sian stateme-

ovis (20364,
} Washineson. Author.

ean a grog at

Aurericay Nurses Aesocation.:7016. Cac
Petr ved from “tes. usingevord rg

Aoenanses wit ncagetive ste
sileo"2-ies

Beis, P, & Coke,
SAN Hewes

Horkingcllsboratvely wit ont-rse ma agers
alion, (77, 8-8

Burkle, 2, Mallee, & Wallan, B23, tis
ing? fn.  nvantn: he son Ca loge Ineigonecun

(Carade, Parsmert, Sac a
liedioa assignee i cing pe 2 gpvocts Zac Pal
Session. Retrieved 1am bia. arwe. cage calouse ublcaoe/F Ub rat an
asp? Lancuace-e& Mode-TRurl-426925-18D¢ UB” ZC

1: Germ ee on Pysicions

Caradia- acre’ ctvightsand acer, Yas] ct tha ansittion At, 18
Sulesu tu Ue Casa Act “BE2KI 1882, 611

tobe

(Cavadia~ ntitutes 2 Hoa ch Resesteh, Natural Sianoes an

winseri'g Feswerch Co_nei

fF Canada, Social Sie“¢es cnt | umavtize Regea’ch Sours et Lan
ial eas fe Rests
nglig-oa tie separ? Tata

Caray Yuses
[Pes sia” statome], Stee: 8. tor

ciation. £1034,

(arate Wurses Resociation.:70021.
toed), Ollawe: Auther,

Caradia~ Yurses Asscriation
ta Auth

0.

Cavadia~ Vurses 2xsociation (20081, ties fr Register uses
attial considerations ino pandamic at ether emia. Rette
ajc zetfmediefona/sage-conteUpdFenellies iy orecC ee sugust ZIC8 wpe lama

alia Nurses Aascinnion, 22008)
Feo eve frm tps. feria. calf:
health_equity_euq_2Ui8_e po“? 07

ial at a

cuttin” scarome-th
au{psI0B-y us

‘anespeyews

canes Wuoos Associate
CCavacian Muses Aesacie un, 2098, ties in Pavtce fer Mepioinedt ures Series Sac
Fetrevad Pom htsasienana alocarecie?s-aipagn santant/adf
tioe_act |_7109_e

Regine
omen. Aovoved mht
porengetIG ell ard hynen rts 2011 2ouflesen

ages one 0
imecis/s”afpaq2-camtertfadf-cneth

Pomhtps: raaiccs
h_70°7_aclz=an

Canacia Nurses Aesatie'un 2012), Sout a
arrived trom ctsifesowena cit.0nf-7"1M ajensshlesicyps! 26_s3
Ueterninarts 9° hell epelIseer

Canacia Nurses Assacist’on
Respecting choices in ensuite rave: Chaterges and eproensias fers Nerieved “am
hips: fvane an-nrou.eunyf ou aca” alia rss Messed S2ensroypeat yeicieus
invane-<-lte-nate

Canaan Nurses
Sam hte
posiicn-statement lk

OIGU, Peary eat cere asiton stale Pel ewes
imacia-agings cameron cnépeivary hoa ch car

camenukfu-the-pravoe-cl-eeis sra-w'sesi-ea aca ple

Ma. eis in Pro
Retrieved fram hae
bhost-ura ng nu-sing-othizaeth usin-pratien o nan

veafeerrthe- 6.0
atyou-casio

(Cananiae Nurse Besociat an (AMERY atin 2
lg a Cava, Retrieved [ram h waswwon.cne-eical-frelafensipaye-ccn ull
fefara nations a.rnieg tramnavore an map?

9 amas cin asco! asi

CCanacian Nurses Aesouia an Ca
vas i

aon of Muses Unio
wwovecna-eis.ca/~f"ad afene:
omes-forcliants-rurses-ae-organigaia's ja mt

Practce-enviorwents- nein zing
pesiinn-statement aa la=an

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Cavalry vss Assit Caan Hoya ae Cv si Coa

Carauia urses Fulecive Ses ty (2036), Conse, “athe incapable sul
inf, 11,12

(Cara rsing Students A
empowering

Petr eved to

Calan, RL ght
ter aesoesing coy
DBL JC4-Y23L

Colloge ads fod Nuroas 3¢Alaorsa, NUN, Eine decision
rate ian. Retrieved am hr

-sus.ab eafeo venlidarver-afedls‘Dacumen.LsG.iéolnes RY. Elieabex ses
ni0.at

hl guesses,
Professicva Bo.

[pallege ct Nursee of Stain, PORRAL City sensitive ca F-aciceg.italine.Haciavan
Conblostmeine-ooryulubalaese sfeousiat!S190 e.luallysers pl

Calloge cf Rursor ef Ont (200
Petr eved from ollpicore eno ciy_glabelessets

Culloe ef Rursos ef Stain, 20° fa, So
[Wvarcinn gust ne, Asrigoad An hnpseaew crn arggleha aseate conan 70!
confiel were

etrieved ram IL
rrsns-rlesir-msi lf

(oallageet Nurse nt Dota.
Fun hil.xsfieqine-u aruba

[Vvarcen quit ne, Asso
sfemssa}4034 suoperllea ners pl

of af 3t' Col.bin, OCH. Aas aca
Retrieved f-am hia.
Prostiso.adf

Calloge ef Raq ster Nu
bo maiiaiap
cars Liat/5

canes Wuoos Associate
Celleye et Feysteved Nurses ef 3:4 Zac a (2917, Conse Practice s anced
Fate ved from vps:tewnerabe.caStadardyPracioeSta"dords! Pane

orscntasoi

(Cllagect Fag steted Nursae of en Sal.
slendstc’.Pelr eed fram ps
frye

uty press ca rath
ser u.c3/Sta"darUs/Prav.jeeSlar dards; Pages

ef Bile Sedan. 2017, Do
Patricves trom ates
ct gas

cl Fey stered Nu Praclica hurses cf

Ficnitnan allagn at Hegistve Payeh at tar a fan oha, FAM, sian assed

ion, Flr eve fou “lps ose
woes

College
situstons ®raot ce gu dling}, Retrieved fom
plea

Son" cap tens
sitatia

Celleye cf Fy/stered Nurses ef Nuva Suulie, 20°74, eb
[acter quite), Horne ter hin serans cata conta
vplesals/2016/05/PSU-in-w-arkalece pl

Collage ct Rog stercd Mursos of Nova Scots, Celle of Lcensod Praccioa ursos cf Rov
yng lg er aves. Ter evade htpfe1-ns.
ial Asis ance- Dying Buidalnes-ierWuraes. pe

bafisp-cunteuplueds 2018/06"

Flea Meguerales, 8 Lush Ga-ut, J Halla” Warn, Caboraa Incas, 8 Cun a
‘nes, 120° 5) Ellis! conf inci val care n’sieg: Cove aicn seteen exposur
5, 22, S44 BZ. dck1O. 17 HIGHAFSANTCH AYRE

Tent, (1980, Bnval eiare3s in trical practice: Ina cations far-ne nce

aerial, Casi 1 LO

rg $. a 8tarnacane, Bl 2CU. Ein
we el Osfurc3 ake

a fr aly» Cellabonel ng Parl ws 20121, Cena
Patric tram tho Canadian Pet ant Saar nes suta
pelierlsalelyins. w.2cesen culsRexcuvesrhne de nalts? DucurienleCa avian 29
Invicantss2ils-nlys#4-20Fterayecrk POF

eaten, 8.1199

rglesionc (itt, Hl: Pant'c2 tall

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
Lise wad Pacticel Nu-ees issue eof Prince Elwane len, Assuciien Pets ated
Nu-sas a Price dears Ilend, Princo athvare slaxd Hoa = Soccer Caurel [2
aioves ses and teense,
arspoieasimegaaydacume-ta/Fhsanal Phsierking-agcth or pdf

ean A, Raney, & Starzemscy RANE A tamnn
‘eu ul pie ssubuusdlies 201 efter slur Ec

Nu'ses Aesociacen af New una ck. |2CU}. Pe
Te

Feciscorod Musas’ Assonition nf Ontario. [21 Cotohoranke pectic emang auising

Best ra Petieve mau casitsimnascasfes?

Fecisarad sas’ esoriatian nt Gavi. [PCN7}. Faia sant ath
‘ence Best orelizs guide ire. Petrivved frau lp
gata ars hoa“ ate cavelgg tI

Fan aaghpq/quilliasfmt
compe.ene

Pocisorod Nusos' Assocation a
Postion eizetrent) Reriewesl tram ita eayites?nag-ca ee

Pessiey State-want Strongr-oning Cient Conticd Care -n Home Caro.pdf

Fenny, F& {P17 shat wn abut 0
ISupol, SP-S10. ui “2109201 NALCOOEST2z04 8

Focney,F, Buckoy. #. Strat, A, Serane, L. & Marcin L.A. 120
Ip 4. Stereh, > Poeney

Foeney,F, Harick Dean, , Star, 4, 8 Maren. JPEN}. low
Sans Morse, 19218, 29-27,

fa sven raral livatn,

Foxs College of Yusing. 4. strlia.2U2C1 Sons

Carberta: Autos

fous abicction [esi

tomer]

Fushile», ©.
rin,

oral resilient

sspevity for navige ing oral cstess in rival
nA

OW as Z,

Scot" a, Houtwy, , 8 Starcomshi WG (2013), Teva mora toon Mus

Tovort:

canes Wuoos Associate
“hunpsu’, A KFaily, $, Gibson, JL, di Lpsh RE 8.20069, es ma pane
influaza crisis Paroweri fer sa sion mak ne, UAC Mosinee. 7.1"
doi B3P177-6039-7°7

“ots ene Mzeurelit u> Sara ssivs 2° Canad,
hai

“abv ene Teuunulit u> Sanu ssivs o° Canad (20° 3, Ronowiig de
Retrieved ts

Summary 214 Uy 31 vob ope

United Nat'a-e Ca-aral Asaa-thy (1948, (Sibeasa este

ut hl: ferme n.eryien un es ean“ untet i

| sein of

tostcr. 0.8 Ba CUD, Moral -asidu>, m$. 3. uni~& L Zoe

auc Ta ets of te practiee of mesieiae pp 217-7891 lagers”, MD
University 2uaishin
‘Wart Hen 1 D-genization, [PUN onstinu 9° <-a Sr ean D-geniatinn (25h

Suop J. Felrivead "un hl iwwon oi inlyorernancefeh ols uurst ulicn aul

icant 0

fold Hea <1 O-qenization. [20° PL. Socal d2:
_deratrinantsie"

alt, Rot ved fram het

‘au, W., Mauhouse. 2, Khan, P, & Reday B20, Goneepts ane cases

[Brae oj Pateaherega, iN: faeces Pras.

(Code of this u Fsnibte oa Muses
ak ye |
mA

CODE OF Ethics

° CANADIAN
NURSES
“ASSOCIATION »
cna-aiic.ca/ethics

ifonsais Econsderurses mHQERCNAVideos EH Inked.neiva- AIC
