Tegietered Nurses Association | Registration Policy
atthe Northwest terateres
snd hunavut Policy Description: Reg stator Violation
Page. at? Paley Number: BP

‘lective Gate: January 208 ew Foley

Revision: Partial _X Complete ___
Signature

Review Date: lanuary 2024

“Applies To: Those ind vidi als who Rol themelves oUt ta the aublé ms, ar prachce Whe Fala gh A
Rogistant i the Northyst Tere tans [NT] ur Nunavut [NUL witrovt vbluwiny rey station oF
ternpersny certteate with the Registered Nurses Associaton ot re NortmsestTerrisaries and

Yar eut (HNN 1/HNU ta ha d such 9 tale or pracace i suc 9 ale

Purpose: IFis poly coe hes what consttutes a walatin of the Nohoweat Fecakanes Nurane,

Professian Act 12003} and Cansoliation ofthe Nursing Act (2538), speciic =o registration, and tne
cians ake hy HAIN when such 9 veltion 2c.

Definition of Violation:
An ind vidual the MT or NUS iv otinn af the Nursing Profession Art INP) oF Nursing Act whee

lal. they have not obtained reg stration with RNANT/NL! and are practicing wr the NT ar NU ir the ra of

le) they have nat bta'nee “egistation with 3VANT/NU ane are using = protected “ile andar
designation wae Section 2 2(2) oF the Het;

lei thei cert ficate ot rgistration has expirac and they continu to work ata registrantin the NT o*
Ny,

|} their temporary certiiste has expired snd they continue to work as a temporary cetficateholeer
inthe NT oF

\uhen a registration vialatioa is susnactad, RNAN/NU will ake cha fol owing actians

2 Stup Wore Order

Wher an alleged violaton bacemes know to RHANT/NU, che Ragisiar will contac: the

indbcual and thew emaloyer wo ven" the mdoduat's employment slates aed the aleged
violation.

le the via ation 5 vonfed, che Repstas wll afgem te adhvial ang thew employer that thew
aren violztior ofthe NPA Ifthe individual is practicing inthe rele of a nrse they will be
frderee to. ce9se working immediately

2. Motfeations

(Once a registration volt ani verbally canfcmed, the Registrar wll send a leter wa erailto
ve vidual and Une erplayer within 3 why days,

ip The later tothe inaividual wil serve as an oti

I notification of the regstracionvilation
‘and an offical neifestion af the apnkcable nenaly fe forthe mdadual Wit wn 10 business

jatered hurees Aazciation | Regisraion Paley
af the Northwest terateres

nd Runavut Policy Description: Reg stration Violation
Page. ? of? Paley Number: BP

days. 17 incvidual is requ'red to provide an explanation of tne vnlation to RNANT/NL. The
india willbe cenqited ta subnnt there pes ty “26 te HKAN LFA withie “Dbusiness cays

tii) The etter to the employer wl serve as avaffcal netieation of te regerating violation
andwivn 19 business das, the employers required te pruvioe ae explanation uf the
Violation ta RRANT/NU.

3. Decision or Repistrat on

Upon notification af the reputation v elation the registisvon comweitten wal ceide to
4. fepstar or reinstate (as ner Policy RB(2) the applicant/member;
deny the mdwid Jal epistation of the spp! cant/memher
‘2 the reg strato "nay request the ind vidual or the ernplayer te prove addon
\Pfosntation related a the walt,

Conaiions and Exceptions
une

‘Authority and Aecountabiliny

This policy i issued under the authority of BNANT/U Board of Diecters andi gove-ned by the
Northevest Ler-itonies Nursing Pression Act [2003 5? #14}, (>) and 5/013, (7), (3, (3, (B.A
Nunavut Nursing Act 1998! £9(2), [2,3]; and ANANT/NU Bylay 29:2). The Board of Directors has
the auchavaty ta reuse thas Pa ley a coquired,

‘The Rag trary stcounLable to the Executive Director and utimataly to the rrumbursg, forthe
ierplementat on of tas Policy and may ce egate any relaced adminstative tasks.

History
This policy replaces:

Regus ston 2ol ey HY; Kepsstration velstons
Revisions: January 2021

0101

