Regitered Vareee Asacintion | Aemvinistanan General Pay
bof le Nartnavest Territories
and Sanavut Palcy Description: Zero Tolerance
Page: Lot 2 Policy Number: 268

Effective Date: September 18, 2019 Tew Policy

Signature: Revision: Partial _X Complete

Review Date: September 2022
‘Applies To: All Repisteraa Vurses Aasaclatior of the Vorthwewt Territories and hunavat [RVANT/NU
emalayees aad is members, as wellazal ndwiduals conducting business wth she
Association
Parpore: Ta prov de support for RRANTIN er ployees who may experiance abuse throug thelr
Interactions with acher emp oyesf the dssneition, the ascacation’s memaers, oF
indviguals cond ting baw wth Ue Aasouiatin,

Definitions:
Abuse Abuse van be detnee as

3. Gru vinlent, oF antairtrest nent af someone, in asex.al, physica ormental rarer,
ands
2. Rade and oMtensve words said to another person {Abuse 2036}.

Policy
1} RNANI/WU enolayees hive a eight to 9 safe ne cespectfil work enavonrent Any act oF abuse
directed toward RNANIT/NL emplayess will not be toleratec, An Employee who tasle they sre
faecncing abuse eral handle she ition hy taking the fa lowing actions
1. Asking the individual to stop using sbusive behaviour je. language, act ens}
2. the vidual contmies ta ne abisive hehaviout, the employee may rept the nd vithan
the Exective Director
4. F the abusive benay our rantinues after the inves is referred ta the Fxecutve Director, the
Execute Drwctar mays
A. Rf the individual tothe RNANT/ WU Professional Conduct Cammittee ifthe individual is 2
sneinber of the Association: or
>, Refer the individual to the RANT‘ Registrar tthe individua is applying tar reistration
seth the Association:
Contact the RCMP to report the incident

12} Fer abus'veindiicualis a rember oris apaying lor membership with tre Assocation and is seing
refereed ta exter the Professional Canduct Corwrittee or Hep sta, thelr application for ital,
registration 0 renal of registration withthe Associaton may not be praressed until the
comanteeo” Hep 5:79" hos concluded theic rewew af he incident.

‘conditions and Exceptions:

Registered surces Asaclation
of Le Northwest Territories
and ana

Page: 2of 2

“Reministratan General Pay

Paley Description: Zero Tolerance

Pokey Number: AG

ane

‘authority and ecountabiley:

This poly is ssued under the authority of the RNANT/NU Board of Dreclars sed us yoverned by the
Nemthwest Ter tories Nursing Pratssion Act [2003) ane the Nunavut Nursing Act (1998). The Board at
Direetars han the authority 9 -evme this poly ws required

The Exceu the Diector# steountuble te Ure Boure of Cie

ors, aid utara yo the metnbersy, for

‘0e imple nentationat this pelicy ad ray delegate avy elsted adrinistrative tas

History:

Ihispoley reaaces Adminstcotion General ¥o icy AGS: 4eca Tolerance, revised Ray 2010,

References

‘Abuse. 2016, In Cambridge Dictionary acne. Retrieved from Fip:!/dictionary.cambridgeore

