Ragitered Varses Assocation | Boara Paley
of te Northaest leretones
and Vunavut Folicy Description: Cor flict of interes:
Page: Lot ? Paley humaer: Ba

Effective Date! Gepternber 18, 7018 ‘New Paliey —

Signature: Revision; Partial _X._ Complete

Review Date:_suptember 2022
‘Applies To: RNANIT/NL Board of Sirectors ard Commttex mer bars

Purpose: The abject af this palicy to envance merrber and pu ie confidence w the Wteqity TPH
Regtered Nurses Aosotiation uf the hurthwrel Ternlonus ad Manasut, ad Yo Cah
dle sion making in tre best incevest of RRANT/NU the abilty of the Boare and Coramitte=
srebers to an unvided loyalty to thy Aasvertior

Pate
{1} All Board oF Committee merbes will entarm ta the following

‘wall accan what they bel eve 0_be the best nleest of the RNAI /AU and ns members vathowt

comoromize by ar outside interest,

Perform ther official dutves and arrange the r prvateaffors in such 3 manner thot: meinbersp

‘and oubhe confidence and ‘rust in the ntegrty object vity ad ipatiity ofthe RNBNTIU

ate canse-ved and enhanced; and real, pore-riala’ perceived canflcs are addressed.

Not evowngly take advantage of, or benefit ruin fferation obtained i the course of ther
ficial duties and resparisiities, and that isnt generally neailab ta the pL.

No: «vow yly puciopatesdincassfuote an questions ecg an orgaeieatior of which they are

1 Beard Member.

Pecfo’m thew frictions w an objective and erat manne:

Noro ict ar actept transfers of economic bevetit, Incidental gtts,customery wespitality ar

other senetits of novunal value nay be accented

i] No act after they nave ther postion, n uch a manner ao take mproper advantage of thei

previous office

»

2} Any Beard or Comm tea member with a rea or potent‘al conic ot interest shall declare the
eta ls ofthe en be'ore ciscussior of she question and vemave themselves from the portion of
the meeting dur'ng discussion ard avy vating related tate acter.

(3) A Beard or Commictee member who abstains “tom participation because ola contlst of interest
reenais present for determin ng q.orum

la) fan undeclared real, potential ar paece ued cortict ees ane becween private interests ofthe
Boare or Commnttve murburs und the  Assouatioy dies and respunsiblites ria Bowdar
Committers inzerain if they have areal. potentia of aeresived contlct, he following process will
be fallowees
Any patential cr pe'ce'ved cont it of incevest will be diclased lin wrtirg) ta the President or
recente, If 20th the Presicent and Pesdent-Llect are the members. th te ac‘cewed
conifet af terest tne matter may be disclosed fin wit ngj to another member ofthe the Boar.
Ragitered Varser Assocation | Boara Paley
of te Northeast lereitones

and Vunavut Falicy Description: Corflict of Interest
Page: ? of 2 Paley Numaer: 8a

1 The President, President-Elect or other Board rember wil strive an impartial committee under
the autnovity f the Roardte proaose 9 slutian ina ienaly manner. The impartial committee
sulle compestd of one Board Member and tivo dd twa mu-nbers in gol standing.

Tha cantik ill be resalved i favour of tne Assoriatian’s interest.

d}Possinlesoltions may elude

‘+ arificatio uf the saab Lo the comalainant and to the Board
res gration rama particular comm tlee or from the Board:

may pareipate out nat vate;

may “ot particioate and nay nat vate;

should net be present at ciscusior of pectic isues,

15) No Board member nay bu 3 member of the Registration Committee o: Profess onal Conduct
Committee.

‘Canaitians and Exceptions: W/A

‘Authority and Aecountabilty:
This pokey 6 sued under the authonly ofthe RNANI/NU Board of Dueclers dss poverned 9y the
Nerthwest Terrtovies Nursing ratession ct (20031 sL3 and Nunavut Nutsirg Act |2004) 52. The Baard
af bucectars has tne authanty to rose thes Palcy as requwed

Fach nemaer af t¢ Boned oF Rtectnrs and each Gommittes membe* is acrountable tothe Road ef
Dirveturs andor the Committe to whist they belong ane ullunztely “he members, forthe
inaplementstion of ths pa icy.

History
This poiy resacas palicy “3 Conte a Irterest issued in March 1990 ard revsed in May 1924, Apri
13099, ond Apr 13, 2008
