Rowtsrod Nurses
Assocation af the Northwest
Tertinwres and Nona

BYLAW

NOMINATION AND VOTING

Date Revised: Oct, 23, 2005

Approved by BOI
Ratified fry Members!

jan, 29, 20M
Apr. 30. 2005

SECTION |

on

a

13h

SECTION 2

Nemmosatioes, Carmittee

The Bus shall eect a votang member ofthe Burd as ebirpeeson oF ee

nominating comvmitice fot 4 teem of ottiee oF bee $a,

In the ease af vacancy ot the chaimperson, the Board may app «| member of
tbe Bsr to esmuplety the tent of ole

The chavyperson of he nomnacing committee may appoint a maximum ef three
rcmbers ta che eoramestex fram among the aclise members of the AAssoexttion,

‘of the nowsinating etwnitte shall be oll af the members of

Qucrum for net
tbe eens

Tre nommations varmittee shall

Lo) setnla eal Far cntiitiony for election ofthe Presilent-Tuel, View
Proslure Noethivest Terztories, Viee-Presicem Nimuaul, Secretar.

Tessier ac che gional menber ste all members ofthe Asswciion aot

less Ga ninety days befote she date of dhe weneral mecune of Ite
Association:

Ub) sets eal far nents tor the pasiboms meutiemeat ie eos (0 amy
line shere isa sausmey durmg dhe tenn of ollice av aeemdanee wath the

bslns andthe diccetion of the Bus: and

et prepare the clecrion slate and destribute the elvetinn slate a the moraers
inf the Agsacintion in avconlance with the bylaws,

Nemunsnwas Prove

41) Any cetice member ofthe Association 1s eligible to be nommated, in agvordanee sith che

Inslaws, faran elated position an the Heal

(2b Daly active anembers of the Association tay nuke names

43} The names of che nomines
nominating commit

shall be submatted in vert tothe eharperson oP the
along with she writ coment of the nome to kay his her

name sland For norman

Rowtsrod Nurses
Assocation af the Nortkswest
Tertiores and Mamas

BYLAW

NOMINATION AND VOTING

ry

15

16

The nemsioanioos vomnumee sball verify that eel weveiney ign aesio ober i
sanding in the Associa,

1 ne nominations are recived Fora positian athe Heard, the Boars may. tthe
aliseretion of the Bisard, makw im appointment 1p at postin

Where thexe is only one nemunce For & position. dat Moetinee shal be dee
‘Tested by aclanntcon to chat postion. ain! no election allen 1s Fey

vo duly

Ian elected member is unable to accept the position a: tke general meting, thst position
thay be filled by nomination and elsetion a ba

ceneral snout. i accordance wil the

Dylans,

SECTION § Voting Procedure

on

ay

cn

164

A muznher nfthe Asscciatom is eligible tw he u voting delegate at a general
rogeting if the meter has been at active eee of dhe Assuabions Fara feast

sis woths phur 0 the general meets

Atleast six weeks prior e the general meeting of ths Assoetation, the Association
‘shall elevlop the Tist of members whe ar eligi insider to detennine the

runber a sees esnved by each ee and ti sleteraine tke mimusr of voi

I:ach region oP the Assoviarion shall bs entitled to one voting de
five active mombers of thy region andl ane voting delegate for every aldtinnal tem

active members, a par theres, of he region,

The sting body af tbe yeneral miveung ot the Association shall evesist oP voting
delegates.

The mans ofall of the vein

sleleyates shall be subritel in writing tothe Hird

at lest Fr wrecks priv ts the start ef the general wuoetang

{u Theitate the votng procedure

(0) coring delegates at 9 general mevting shall be property identified and
seated

HD} ering delegates at a elecvaterenee
Isltsiod and contiem sheer pase

w sal be properly

Roaustsrod Nutyex
Assoewtion of the Northwest
Tervinrees anal Nonasut

BYLAW 1

NOMINATION AND VOTING

cn A voting delegate shall garry more chan ong vote for his her region, i naessary

sate way that
Indicate the number of Yores the delegate eaurses ory vorteg Goleyates declaring

1h ‘Verne on snot and esultgms shal be by shore oF satiny ds

the mumber of chsir vas via seleowmere noe

o spite subsoetion ON) in the ase Wt vin
hall.

Fersiticers, voting shall he by secre!

SECTION 4 Serutineers

41) The chairperson of the general meting shal. prior the genyral meeting, appt
serntinesrs hin amy active members a he Association wlus are aot saking

el

and whe eee nen capidilates Far election,

42) Theserutneers shall

ay) ount the hlloes une report the results ofthe eons i. wvting to the ehaiepersins

Hsp oun sees resolutions an mytions at weroral Mees

Inviting Uo the sbairpexsen. andl destroy the BIOs,

sod epent the results,

