agistered Nurses Association
dof the Nestherst fare toves
and Nunavut,

Pager Lots

Taard Poy

Policy Descritian: Ro es and Responsibities of the
Dieectors ofthe Board

Plow Number: 8

EWfective Date: Suptornbur 18, 2018
Signature:

Review Date: Septernner, 2022

‘Wew Policy

Revision: Partial Xx Complete_

‘Applies To: RNANT/NU Board af Sirectors

Purpose: Ths po ley dehncs (ve role and rexgoreie [les oT the HSN THU Bearcat Dreclors along
with the specie raspons bilities ard dutis o* eae member othe Board.

Paley

re the espansilty of the Veard oF Liectas to marage and conduct the affons ofthe Associaton 996

-2x8'ise the cuts and respensiciliies as detined bylaws

Its the resacrsibility ofthe Board ot

Db recta ta ens.re the Aasacit on achieves its ends in tm best interest 0” the acbke ard its emoers

Ends ne ude out are vot limited to
‘+ Mandate, Vision and mission:
‘Protection ofthe public,

‘© Protessionalselt-egulation
‘+ Pratessional advocacy.

‘The Board of Directars ensure ends a°@ met trrough advocety, pa icy governance and stratege planning

11} Roles and Resgons bilities of Fach Divector ot the Boa'c
1) et 95 9 nk aetwen the Assacarion aad the publi including members:

# suaports and communicates hoard policies and decisions tatae memaers,
= 50 cts opinions ane feedaack rem mersbe-s on lent fed ssves,

+ informs me maers about the RNANT/NL wien epuortuel esa

+ assats Ch RNANT/N lobbying sbities ws sopraumate,
+ yaters das and converns fram iwiv dual mernbers ur gruus of members ard takes these to

the Basra,
© distebutes materia sas appronviate

links ptential volunteers a the Assocation
recruits uot ng delegates ‘ror the reg on they represent

bi Organizations Awareness

1 gains knawledge and experience af bard governance and opevatianal requ rements By
parcipal ng n board orentat on, preparing for board meetings ae aztive partie pation
© gains knawtedge and avaretess uf regional/nal enlfalobalwrsing issues wih
may mpact the Astoclaton, through reading of distributed materials and other sources.

Tagintered hurvas Aevoclatian | GoardTa ky

dof the Nestherst fare toves

and Nunavut Policy Description: Ro esand Responsibilities the
Dieectors ofthe Board

Pager 2013 Phew Number 8

©) Governance

Ui the Board will gore urea aoly governance Fase with an crrphass
+ outward vision vathe than ar nlernal procuetpetion
© commtmicnl wy oblarrig members ap inp,
4 encouragemert of d versityin viewpoints,
4 strategie leaders ip rather
4 clan datinctor of Board and staf roles,

an ad-rmstrative deta

+ callctive rathar than ind dual decisions,
‘© future orientation rather than past ar present,
‘© orocivity rather shan ractiviy

(Gil TRe Board will gavern shrough wvitten Bozrd Policies addressing

‘© Grganizstioral products, imoaccs, benefits, utcomes, recipients, and their a ave worth
{what pood, for whom, a what cost)

“+ Corstrants on executive authonty which establun the prudence and ethics bound es
Within which all execative activicy and dels cs rus take olece

‘© SpecTication of how the Board conceives, caries aut snd meniarsits own tasks.

‘How authorry ik delegated, and its proper use rronirared; he Executive Diecvor eae
authorty and accountability,

4} gprs anoual budget, reviews anausl audited statements 20d moritorsfngacial cartons

| Fea uates the Fuecutive Director Registrar. The Roatd wil review Fxecutive Director performance

1) Set goals and participates in scrateg c planning

8} Participate asa memoer er chair at a Board committee asthe raed arises.

12) President - Specific Responsibilities

wy

)

caries ot she responsihLtes n the Wyss,
leneures& chairperson is designated according ta the Bylaws. to perform the duties ofchaitpersan,
callabarates th the Fuecutive Becta,

ta idonlfyinsues for Exceuive/Bourd corsideratior

taensure su table pub ie elations are maintained,

reanese'rs the RNANLIU at public fenions or ensunes an aerate athens,

see. out ard accively prticiparesinla'sor meetings with

iN Deparleen of health and Social Serwues, NI/Jeuarimet of Healeh, NU,
Tagintered hurvas Aevoclatian | GoardTa ky

dof the Nestherst fare toves

and Nunavut Policy Description: Ro esand Responsibilities 0° the
Dieectors ofthe Board

Pager 3013 Plow Number: 8

ii) rian at Ha

ee Workersshunawut employees uninn,
Ii other health rclaed professiona associations,

1 signs by aus, contacts and same cerrespandence on behal of tae RNANT/'U,

2) writes the Presidents Mlesage in Ihe RNANE/NU hewsletes,

hy periorms the annual pertarmance appraisal atthe Fxecctve Director,

11 we comes and avieats neve Saad members

il delegates tunctions as anprapriete to tne Present Ele, s'ce President ar ather Beard member.

[2 Prsidentolet ~ Specific Ressonsibitias
13} caries ut he responsihLtes nthe Bylaws,
by assists the President in tre performance of herr cuties,
1 becomes fail arw th the functions ofthe Astacition in preparation forthe role af Present

1a) Vice-President ~ Specific Resaonsih ties
5) warnes ove :he responsi Los n the Bylaws.
by assets the President ard Pres dent-elec: in she performance o° their duties.

(6) Secretary = Spectic Responsibilties
3) carnes uc zhe responsi Les n the Bylaws,
by ves the Exzcutive Directo” acorrected copy of tne minutes within a reasorastetimestrame iy
order far tmam 9 be prepared tor aapropite dstriation

\WiTreasuier Sec fc Resaa%s bite

2) carries out:he responsb ties n the Bylaws,

by oversees the financial management af te Association to ens. financial decisions are withir the
Axsovution’s mandale, The Treasurer may request “ancumn menihly rey ews of eas Mould.
accounts aan and mations directing expenditures,

 partcraatesn the rewerr ofthe Ascocial on’s Franca -anagemert will the appointed auditor
and Exscutive D'rectar,

4 osssts he Lageutwe Dwrector m prepara

fama che annua budget and rowed budget.

Vutegionat tember
23} cztries out che rasponsb ties nthe Bylaws,
battens meetings 0 the Koa.

1}. Bualic Reyeesentative/ Verner af he Publi
2} caries out:he resaonsib Les 1 the Bylaws,
by attends meetings 0 the Roar
agistered Nurses Association
dof the Nestherst fare toves
and Nunavut,

Pager dots

Taard Poy

Policy Descritian: Ro es and Responsibilities of the
bieectors ofthe Board

Plow Number: 8

serves as a resource ta the Board by apalying
Assocation

Skills, education and experience tothe wack of the

1 serves a a commun’cetion link between the pratssion and the abi,
Uf develops dept uf srowevge uf nursing and eal care sues

9 Boaed stecture

RNANTU Baad Sleucture

Preside
Vee Preadent WT] Pewsndent Elect | | View Presiden! NU
Regional Member Tieas.e" Regional Member
NWT Noth NU Fast
Regional Member Secretary Regional Member
NWT South NU West
blir Member NT Pubic Member
NU

Conditions and Exceptions

‘The day-to-day business ofthe Association willbe caried aut by the Executive Director in accordance
swath legislate author ty ed eiectan From the Yoard ver aoe
‘The Executive Director wil attere allax'e “neetings in a non-voting capac

‘Authority and Accountability

this pokey is syed under the autnority ofthe RNARI/NL Faacd af dwectars ards Rovernee Oy te
Nursing Profession Act (2003), 513 and RNANT/NU Bylaw 8.
The Board of Durectors Fas the authority tn revise Nis Policy as requived.

‘The Board of Directors is arcountaale to the mernbe-ship for tre implementation at chs plicy ard may

lolegute wy related ucevinstrative tase,

History:

Tagintered hurses Aevoclation | GoardTa ey

af the Nesthorst far toves

and Nunavut Policy Descrition: Ro ee and Responsibilities of the
bbesctors af the Boar

Page: Sof 5 Ply Number: 63

tus poly reaaces tne pokey enbtled 1 2 Uoard Member Resaonsinty Guidelngs ssue0 October 1987
and rev'sed May 1996. April 2000 ane Apr 13, 2604

References

Nurses Assor’ation of New: Brunswick 12012) Global Governance Pvocess Boa Pol'y. NANB: Autho”.

Nurses Assor’ation of New Brunswick [2014). Gaverning Stile Process Boa'd Policy. NANB: Authar.

Nurses Astor‘ation of New Brunswick !2012), Board Jab Contribut'ans 3oard Policy, NANB: Authar.

