Registered Nurses Association of the Northwest
Territories and Nunavut

Bax 2757 Yellawknile, NT XIA 2R1
Phone 867 873 2785 / Fax 867 873 2336

Applicant Information on Criminal Offences

Name: _. NANT/NU Registation Naif =spalicable

Deve ef arth:

On your app ication for egitration, registra un renewal oF Lemparu'yregtral on withthe Registered Nurses
Astocation af the Northwest Terctares and Nunauur{RNANT/ANUI,yau arsucered “yrs” 10 tne question regarding
ony even er outstanding charges of 8 eum nal offence 104}

‘our anp ication cannot be assessed unt this completed form, twa cererences, nd 9 fl crim nal record chece
have buen received a the RNANT/NU office.

‘The fa lowing crite are sorsulered when rev ewwng criminal vorvictions ur wutstaieg charges

1, The behaviour fas or the charge or cen UL un ws made, and if repeated,
patient satety nd ta the employers ablty to operate safely ard ficiently.

2. The crcumstarces of te charge oF corwietion and the sartculars ofthe offence involve.
forts made a rehwasibLa un, bke rood uf reLurences. ane axcomnplshments of Ue mdvideal weve
the ettence.

Ureat psed to

1. ave two references sent cirectivte the RNANT/NL These references may include (ai character
refe-encels|arcfor.it apa icabe, tht emp over referencetsh, a 1 school n-ogram ceterencesh
Ind vidua s wna may aravide a reference include, but are not ivited to, lal rursing employers, (bl nen
nursing e-players, fe) nursing eeuzat an program teache’s, ( prysicians (if appliah el, (2) colleagues,
{fy probation officers, or (gh versonfa volved in “chal tation efor suv as counsellors, One referees
MUST be a curren or most recent supe sisor/manager. Please ensure the indi dual providing the
reference marks it CONHIDLNTIAL and sabre tdueel to the Regier at the RNANT/NU,

2, have a crerinal cecara check completed as per iasteuctions on the CSI screening 095 te Ws
swan csscrgening.co-, fellow the nstructions to comp ete she Canadian Criminal Recore Check, and
indicate "RNBNI/ I" a5 te comaawfemployer A evisinal cecard creck swale for 6 monts fom the
cate of ue.

3. Provieu, na separate leer, writen exp anation fer wach question below. Atach ary add tionsl
information yourfer relevant. “ne infaratian you provide wl be kept <orfidertal and wll an y 9¢
Used forthe purgase of dete rnin ng your cl gi fo" mesnbersbia andor repstration w th the
NANT.

»

2

2

6

n

‘What criminal offencels} have you beer charged with and what was the cate af charge andlor
‘vise

\Winat criminal affencetst ave you beer conuucted of and what was the date of the convictions?

‘What was the sentence for the carwictianii? Ing. fines, mpasee sentence. probation and
cunchiors ncareeralin, coremunnly serene uncandhlunal dshorge, et.

Ccanyou deserige the specific ceumstances surrounding the oFercels? le @ what accuried?,
what was your specific stuatian a the time?, atc)

Can you autine you" efforts ta overcame the problems that led to this offence! jeg. counseling
received, stiendance ia specie progeas, #1

Haze. Cantrmation of these efor: by person(s or agencies inolued in your rehab itatian efforts
maybe requested.

\whocave wour accomplish wens sce the camieal oer cels}? How wllyou prevent a
recurrence? Are your present creamsstances coneuc'e to preventing any recurrence?

Have you apolied ‘o" 2 oa'ccn? as a pardon been granted?

4. Sign the statement below and tues bis for to -¥ RNANT/NU with your etter of explanation,

to tnebest of my know edge the nforimacion have proweled on th form complete and correct

Signature:

Date:

Scam iis comaleted form iscanferial, fou, mill aed any aeduianal wormaven marked CONFIDENTIAL to:

Director oF Nop ator Seow ces & Ho cw/kagistiae

RNANT/NU
0x 9757

Yellowknife, NT RIA 2R
Email registrarSlenantu.ca
