“Registered Muses Association | Board Policy
of the Northwest Territories

and Nunavut Policy Description: Public Members Honovariurn
Page: 1 of 2 Policy Nurmber: B14

‘fective Date: Fabrvary 2023
Stanate! tar bei larracrcturer>

Review Date: February 2026
‘Applies To: Board af Directors and Public Members

Purpose To provide guidelines for conslstent application when offering Ravorarium payments to an
Individual whe volunteers to sit on RNANT/NU Board and legislated Committees.
Policy:
Tae policy applies to puslic members appointed tothe Board and Committees. public emiver 35.
defined in the Nursing Professions Act (SNWT 2003) member ofthe public” means # person resident in

the Northwest Territories wno is nat and never has heen registered under this Act and who isnot &
member ofa health profession regulated by an enactment of a province or territory"

Complete

‘An honorariumisan ex gratia payment made to a person for services provided ina volunteer capacty
to recognize and acknowledge the contributions o eratultaus service to te Assocation,

It does nat represent full eompensation for ime and e'fort expended. An honorariu is not based on an
agreement or contract, does not require invoicing and does nol allraclLaxes such as GST, Canada
Revenue Agency {CRA} regulations state that all honorarium payments are considered taxable Income
Under the Income Tax Act of Canaca ard subject toa T4A slp heing issued as the end of February
following the applicable tax year en.

Payment Process
1 An Honorarin Expense Claim form must be completed and signed by the honoree and
submitted ta the Execulive Assistant for approval bythe Executive Director within 30 days
following the comaltion af services provided, and may no: 9e paid ifsubritred after 90 days.

2. RNANI/NU Honoraviur Fupense Rate

Description Rate

‘Board Public Members or Lepslated Committee Members

Upto and including four hows na day 306.05,
‘Over four hours and up to and including eight Roursin a day 409.00

aard Public Member or Legilated Commitee Members in the role of Committee Chair

Upon nclig or hours ey 2500
Dterfburhoursand up oand cdg lg Hous a [25.00

Tegitered Navses Assocation | Board Policy

ofthe Nortnwvest Territories

and Nunavut Policy Description: Public Members Hanorariurm
Page:? of 2 Policy hummer: 81a

Conditions and Exceptions:

1. Public Representative must be present for the Board of Directors meeting/event to receive
payment.

2. Public Representatives rmust he publicly appainted tothe postion fara eninienym of 30 days
before receiving honorarium

3. Travel and business expenses arp reimbursed in accordance with Pnfcy P28.and are not subject
waTaa

4. Amindividualreceling normal pay fram their emplayer to attend an Association meeting isnot
lige for an tranorariurn,
Honoria are nat to he used for Asaciationemployeesar registrant carnmittee volunteers

6 Payments are mage ta tne individual and rot tne mdviguals corporation,

7. Hanorarium expense form submitted after $0 days wi aot be reimbursed

‘Authority and Aecountabilty:
‘This palcy is eves under the authariy af the RNANT/RU Board of Decors and as governed by the
‘Northwest Territories Nursing Professions Act (SMT 2003, 16), andthe Nunavut Mursing Act SAT

Inu) 2588, ¢38 54),

‘The Hoard of Directors has thu authosity o remove revise and update this policy al the aiseetion of the
Board af Btertors

History This policy was approved February 2023

