Ragitered Varses Aesoclation | Board Paliey

of te Narthaest leritones

and Nunavut Policy Description: Board-Bxecstive Director
Relotanshay

Page: Lot? Policy Number. Bt

Efisctive Date: September 18,2018 Tew Paley
Signature: Revision: Partial Complete _

Review Date: September 2022

“Applies To: RNANT/NV Beard of Orectars ane Executive Declan

PucposeTo provide darty > The yovarnance role of Baar ul Brelors aru apurational vale
Executive Director

Poti
Up The Boards scleoYciel connection to the operational organization, its achievernents and conduct
wll be zheaugh the I yecetwe rector,

1} Ga rettcally aassed mations of the Haa-dace nding on the Fecutive Nvector, Accor

(4) dacisions or instructions o indvicuel Board memaers or cummittees are not binding on the
Faerutive Drectaexrept in ate instances when the Rat has specially authaned cach
exercise of asharity

{| in che case af Board members ar roramictees “equescing information a” assistance without
oud aul-orzation. the Ceetuive D rectus Lan refuse suuh requests thal regure the
Executive O rectors ap non, a

(1 only Ure Board acing usa body Lon empley. lermirate scpline, or Uhange Ihe was oF
emp oymert of tre Exerutive Director.

terial anrount af staff ine a funds, orate csrupive.

\B} The Executive Director is she Board's only line to aperationnl achievernent and canuct, a that all
uthorny sad accauntab Ity of BNANT/NY employees staf, 35 far 95 the Bond canceed, s
censiderec the authority nd accauntabi ity of the Execut ve Director. Accord naly
{a} The fone ll neve’ give msteustions te persons sho “ena directly or mwectly to the
Enecutive D rect.

{ML The Rant wil ef from eva uating, ether formally or informally, any sta ater than the
Executive D rect

{el The Board wil view Execusie Director perfarmance as dent cl ta ergariaational performance,
us mg cvaludbon eriterialinelvlig gal and eb
the sratege plan ard the relevant lng sate docursents

sives The goals ard objectives will reflect

‘concitians and Exceptions: N/A,

Authority and Accountability
Ihicpoley is ssued under the authority ofthe RNAN/NU Faacd of bicectars and is aoxerned oy the
Northwest Terr tovies Nursing Profession Act [2004] sL3 {L, Nunavut Hu-sing Act (2004 2, and
HOARE /MU Kyle 8 53. the Hoacdl oF brrectors has the authoty to ru se sha Pa ley 3s cequwed

Registered Varses Association
of be Northavest Terenones
and Nunavut

Pope: 202

Beard Policy

Policy Descripcion. Board-Bxecutive Director

olay Nurnber BLS

Relabonshie

History: Ws

