Regitered Varses Aszacietion | rotessional Conduai Paley
of fe Northaest leitones
and Yaravut Policy Description: terrace Disp.ne Reso ut on
Page: Lotz Paley Nurber: Ca

‘ffective Date: Febraary 2020 ‘ew Palicy —

Signature: Revision: Partial _X__ Complete,

Review Dates Februry 2023

“Applies To, The RUANT/NU Profesr anal Canduat CammiRsse (PCC) Chav pevsan, Deputy Cvaipersin,
Lxecutive Drector, nectar af Prafessunal Conduct Rowen, members, and sof

Purpose: 10 aray de 9 process To” resolution aF 9 comalsint hrovah an agreement ncgatates wt
the member whi e maintaining the interest: ofthe public, the Tiember, andthe Aszociation.

Policy

1 amalteraste Dispute Resolution {a} al generally ava ve negotiations between the member
‘Respondent. ve Comp ainant, and the RNAKT/NU Executive D recto, faclitated bythe Director of
Professional Conduct Review, 2 ustallyevnlues the following steps:

1 the Responcunt s<orlatted and wllingruss lo par pale aEcerla nec

iL the Camplainant i contacted and w lingnass 1 reer she matter ta ADR is ascertained,
11 aformations sharedte determiee wat the nterests and sas are:

i. options tar resaktion ofthe conzerne are explored and evalusted: and

van agveement is drafted and agreed aa by the paves,

> de An may proseed by dicect ngatishons hetuler the Respordert, the Complunant, ad
the Executive Director, wo shal ct as an ager of Le PCE Chairperson, an is favitated by the
Director of Professional Cand Review ar a third-party mediator.

3. Bets the Respondent and the 2CC Chairperson must bein agreement betere the AR.can
be conducted accordance mith paragraph 2

4 When athe party mediate’ 0° the Duectar af Prafessiona Corduct Howem ss rveld, naee ta
tommencervent ofthe process, the Resgondert and the Association wil enter into an agreement
‘ting out the sere ofthe mediation. Bath parves must agree to exgoae in 9 Raad Faith effect 19
resolve tne disagreement with the assistance ofthe nediator or the Diecter of Professional Conduct
Reweu, The agreement aso wll seta timeframes and costs.

5. The mesntar will he sont-aczed hy the Associatnn,Gene’a ly the Respandent and the Associaton
voll cach be responsible fo paving one af the eos oF the nied sto.

45 acmssions made by the Respondent dang the AUK wll not be vied as emdence at 8 Hoard of
Inquiry

7. The Agreement may include:
Registered Varses Association | fotessional Conde Paley
of te Northeast lereitones
and aravut Policy Description: Alternate Disp.se Reso ut an

Page: 202 Paley Nurnber: PCa

(a}any of re poss be remedies a Beare of Inquiry may oree’ under sections 47121 or 48 of the
Nurs ng Profers on det: oF

{by any einer remedy the parties may agree or

8 The Respondent nay be asses by gal ours

conditions and Exceptions
None

‘Authority and Aecountabilty:

Ihis pol cys sued under the authority ofthe RNAWI;NU Boatd of Duecte’s ard 3s governed bythe
Northwest Ter tovies Nursing Matessior Act [2003], :37 ard 517; the Nunavut Narsing Aet (19981;
and the BNARI/NU Bylaw 5, 5/ aed SID. The Board of Uwectars has the autnoriy to “evie this Pol cy
as recuirad,

‘The Director of Protesswnal Gandutt Review, Exewutive Director, and PCC Chanson are
accountable ta the Board at Directors, and uimately to the mesrbe'ship, for the implementation
‘this poly ard reap delegate any relaced adenustrtive tusks,

History:
This policy replaces Protessional Constuct Pal
2018

PC: Alternace Dispute Resolution, issued Getober 21
