Standards of Practice
for Registered Nurses and
Nurse Practitioners

Jonvary 2019

OF HE NORTH ye 251 12RPN GEIS AN

(S) REGISTERED NURSES ASSOCIATION

Acknowledgements

This Standard: dscument as develeped 'ncallaberaion with vepreseniatives fom
each othe fellow ng patiigating jurdicions: he Aczaciarion of Reg
Newoundland and -sbracer the Nurses Association at New Brunswicc, the
Nurses Aeseciation of

Nurses Aeseiation

Nurvee

irered
1 Norhwest Teles and Nucawr, ene the Yuko Reg seree

Leen oth s eacumenn have
Nowe Scotia Slender

n adepted fran the Co lege of Regiseree Nurses of
al Practice ior Regnteved Netees [2017]

AMrcloerecs mace or

Table of Contents

Intreduction,

Standards of Practice

ing the Standards
Indicators for the Standards

Stondard 1: Respon:

and Accountability
Stendard 2: Knowledge-based Practice
Stondard 3:

jantentrad Practice
Stendard 4: Professional Relationships and Leadership
Glossory

References.

Senda of ace fo Regolees Neves ond Rani Pacrhovee

1

19
2

Introduction to the Nursing Standards

The Reg slaves Nuss Aasociolio~ af the Nanhwes Terores ane Nenevat{RNANT/ISLL

hos he lagitloied autre Hoag the Nasing Pofetsion ct INRA, 2004] ene the Nunes

Natsing Moession Ac |" 999} my estalsh, maint'n ond promate standards of sracice ‘or
RRANT/NUIS
simary mendale Is peel and save re public thigh slegulaien, the Sra~aurde
fav Req sleved Nu’ses end Nu-s Practiiones establishes the regelelory and

Feaurdarion ‘oc nasing pracice. the standards ide fy fr RNs. NPs 2 publi,
pected love & perkamance of PNs and NPS

registered curses RN ond nase prac ores [NPI IMs ahora

of Prac

goveiniet ond oer stakeholde’s he
This document identifies four standards for the practice of RNét
Stacdord * —Resaoosiiliy and Acco.clabily

Ssacdord 2 —Knowlaagebased

Stacdord 3 Clientcahed Prectice

Stacdord 4 —Prolessonal Zelotwush ps ard leadership

Standards of Practice for
Registered Nurses

sel oul a hylan, elas aud pote

OFRN ie Hes purstce, agaial wh hota pelorrince en be meanest Al 2Ny
core ozs ble ho ndeslendiny the sland nd ely thor tho pri The

rl sett ngs ond domains

Senda of ace fo Regolees Neves ond Rani Pacrhovee

3

Principles Guiding the Standards of
Practice for Registered Nurses

The standarde:
+ agaly Sell RNS + all pret c2 oles, incleding nse practioner:
isfarn ha puke avd ates abou! wht hey can axcaet hen practising RN
provecl he auble by sipaoring sale, competent, compassionate ava athizel proctcé,
prowde guidance 2 ass's! RNG n thie sltassessnent os pat of rei continuing,
compatence,
tthe fo.:tian lor he develepnen f sands speci lo seni proce

+ ay be use in con wnction with ober sources to guide “wis ng proce fg. enpevel

onpelecies. scope ol lize, position statarants, guidelines, employer po
+ guide decisionmaking ior procl ca one wren addvessng professional practice

+ cused 0s 2 legal ‘arse far wosonnbe anal puadent praice
+ ride curicalm daveleamen’ ane aapraval allnccolouraele “ing education
Pega, nd
improvement tls

Indicators for the Standards of Practice
for Registered Nurses

Toe sordid of prctice or eccongnid by issetton, ol hy develope ka llystte
Foe ach of the sacchari

The indicators:
+ ee trend

+ enol mtended abe nollie hive ora exhaustive lof ena es ouch tondord

+ nay be unos loiprotce based on he conloet of pact: ond

1b wmode rho eexnube ho pracien expen of Re ef wey levee
Phe

ompotence, ers ro emrylevel edn

ag sated Nate Asecon ofthe Mowe Tas les 24@ ett

4
In adsition so the sondores ef practice here a’e ofr standards and dos mers thet ude
nursing aracic, hich ora Wasted in igure 1

Nursing Lagilavon
‘and By-laws

ional Standards,
Postion Statements

Profs

‘and Guidelines
Employer Policies
hi

+ ube Tus: ca be exsiied and mointsied whan RN exe-ive adamant ad ects
aecordirg to all tardards and doseients ropresovted inthis Fgure © met cont neces

+ Nursing .eg sat on, Bylewe and “ol ies: Legiation s's he legal cones fs" he precice
2 natsing; Bylews end Fol ics guide the RNs ints applicator eF-he egiarion,

+ Sondards o Practice for RNs one Cede of Ehics: Seardarde st the exaeckrions
regarding nursing sracties actoss he proossion in all practice settngs and domains >
ode of Ehice psvides guidance for ethical lationship, resvoniblity, behaviour and
decisio~iaking i

+ Enrylovol Compotercies, Bylaws, Postion Sataments and Guidelios:esfino in mare
datail expectations er postions speci to an crea of patie: nay eddrass comp

practice such os decumentt cr o° madicot' administration. “hese docurronts
omeplernen the Saraavds Practice far Registered Nurser and provide acdiionel
iMfarmation an specie“

+ Erpleyer Policies: nuance and direct nating precise avd Ws an
iesinvional ergen'zararal end system level

“+ Clenr Nasal ths isthe focus of he “uring practice; o Hherepeur relatonship benveer
The RN and she clea i esenial in presiding sole, compten, compassionate cand ehical

ent he

Scena o” Fcc or tele Nunes one Neve Fu ora

5

Standard 1:
Responsibility and Accountability

"
fecountable lo he alan, auble,empleyer and profssion,

RI is tesparsiole for evactcng soll, compere. compossonately lla ly ond is

The RN:

1.1 bills ard maint ns ll egishation rsponsbies and -equivemens

1.2 proctiesin accocdonce with rlevaet legislation, sta~dards. regulatory requ'cemenis

- plies,

LA proces in aceoialance with Ine Code al iN lx Registered Noses INA, 20174

1.4 i cncwerasle far suing oe

cons. decisions and potessondl conduct

1.5 acenpis aecoantabilty ene lakes ecian » ensure mess to practi

atasmly ca wk,

17 sors mnplnen athe propria reo ey semen aed
incompetence, professional miseanduct, conn! w-hecaving fe
sisi/o ineeppec
Te sll a pe

Sond le heb ce vier sens

progres ond prt se ng eras ing argc ands hol era services, 2

cals he sont-uing compolence gern

ag sated Nate Accson of he Most

4

Standard 2:
Knowledge-based Practice

Ihe RN pracises using evidenceinore hrowledge. «I and jog
The RN:

2.1 ses ericl inquiry 1 essss, plan. imervere and exclate cia core and veloied

2.2. montors the e¥eciveness of he plam of care und -svses the olan a: ezeded in
caleboral o* wits he cleat and she nec core I,

2.3 recngrizes ard pracines w thin aa level sl competence ond seeks eddtional
Irowledge and ossisionee when ceeded,

2.4 ente tee vactonable wg

2.5 essigns and delegates n.asiny netvlan ir we condone with cha ed ne es
cad competence of the prov ea, and the acvivcant a Ine proclze satin

2.6 punts lent, colleges sil stadens by sla ny nursing heed and epee

2.7 aie us ele ond “inely euunnentation bate wneder slectoric

2.10 domonsttes on scostarling of sear” metho, les oe grvermanen ee telly

Senda of ace fo Regolees Neves ond Rani Pacrhovee

7

|

Standard 3:
Client-centred Practice

RN can bul to-a°d

oles mesures that aotiize pas lve chant sacks estcomes at
the individual. ergon 201 oval ene system level

The RN:

Bal denonsiols « professional presente cad madels x/ss ara behoviow

3.2 respect d veraty nd prometes 6 huey safe envionwre
the heath cove tom

fos elie: ond rembers

3.9 cam sicteselleively ad espactlly wr cans 2 emote cosinly and he
dave'y of tals, campelen, compassionate and ahicel cere

3.0 riots, ma ntins ond conclades the theropeic nce el ent vlan

3.5. phos al ponets el es’ prvey i aiden! ity inal foun 3 comune
(eg. evecends, verbal write, sacial nein

3.6 purciaes using 4 dienteentred practice

fac a he let a che infor decisions nd acess

resents and

cmpushonsve chet

3.19 plans flat Be

cose el un baton opel, stings vo

ag sated Nate Accson of he Most

8

Standard 4:
Professional Relationships and Leadership

the RN estab'shes prfessinal celaronships end comanstateslaacership to deliver qua ly

ruts ng ond hah core serizes

apis of “ung leaders

2.2 advacotes, individually and collacively, far healthy public pokey and aragrars nar 28
informed bi ne aete-inants of hac

ALR conribates 6 ond suapost ints na improne Le heath sylar and aopelo
heath

2.8 pentcpa vite th ion
inmast of pic slaty and the veloprest ofp

sce the polsion of sing in he
Hic ta

4.5 practises hot
teow, wile wderskonding avd tspcing ches lean member’ scape af practice,

iedepencently ene ie sllaberation wih asters of the heath cave

4.8 swetards aed cowmavicole he cof he FN %e mere of re beolh cane a,

lies end the publ

4.8 convoy, datibutos ond tvs resco win tho carl la proves eel ve

4.9 commyicate ellocinly ond seypothly wh our bom rember lo poole
comeing i he

Jey of sale, compas ek ond eho core

Senda of ace fo Regolees Neves ond Rani Pacrhovee

9

Glossary

“Assigns Al acal or stclient cane acti a
Design nan accu's wren the 9.
fara w hin the eguleted Fett

care providers ta mee" client care needs
20 cara cat ells wilh'n he emelovirg agency's policies
providers scape of prectice [NANB, 20° IL

Client{s) Iocisid.als, families, groups, populotions  eaite communities who ceive
rsng exaa-tie, Ihe ere “chant elle the range

furses may be ivetoet ng. Ir some satings. oer “sts ray be wsee, such os point ar
‘2s cen. ed.cation, the el en may leo be a stent: n adhinistet 2 Ie cent may oko
bem employee, ond in vse sia (NBN, 2018

rdiwacal eceyer qrauas with whom

Tra chain esata ye aubjae or pa

Competence: the abifly 28 © RN ta inleg-ate and apply he hoewledge. sl. jadements
fa petsooe oibutes 1 paces slely ond ericelly 1 a designated “ele ond seting
Parzool att bul ingle, tone 6 ited io, caidas, vale ent balls CNS, 20

Continuing campetenc

Irorsing ees ond ob

to pus sfeby ad iz. is naceasory component sf procs cad public wes ix
hoowlege, sil ene jag

allan atc, othe process af cnn casting es own pice hey

he ongoing obily o 0
in, nist ura

aoe plc, ay

apy she enowedge, sills ene j-dgee a ied

beat sea wnan RNS conse inane oie epee ©

7004

respons to sell ene he were vente logy NAN, 201 bee F.C

prec, coucohion, odnumsbees, poly ene rosea The roc us een fosdorneel

to mirong, ad ol her dems: ull ont lo meet ond sunt precre PN nay
psing i more tho ane dams w the the conto thew ie ICN, 20151

Duty to report: 2Nv qunston, wronore, reparl and aodtove une, “oncom pass orale,

vnerhicol or content proche ot cad ore Is telex wl thw sly to prod

rok, compos orale, coraeren sae elhenl ceam ICN, 2017] Nurs rust be ene

Frcicotons that colleague is saks lo prow eo euch ere, regorelees of he reason I is

ruption nurze abl gored lo lake Me lope mecencry to enmure chon enone Reporting &
lgcko» [ERNNS, 2017)

stvolo" hat roy pole chen! safety 1 @ RN's oto

ag sated Nate Aeccon ofthe Monte T

10
ies to practise: Alte ques vie scales an we sl even ta his
hor copsely te rachae ar royiried mui, mlad ng, bul eel lo, Peed ve ey
cogmiee, physiva, pelle emote cond Lee st

epencene on allo 0:

clevys, thot mpi Ie her |p pratane masing INA, 7017,

Incapacity: Stclis whoruby w ingalerd muro sll for @ meheol. eoyerl, merel ot
votionel conned ser ot aesuel on that wher rents heey uneble a prt we ae
shall jedgenen or may earsangor ae eal ge sly oferty [ERNINS, 7017]

Incompetence: Diep of lark of knoolesge. sl or ucyrront v9 ogitored sue’

cone or ele of ureng sesaees that, howng regan el Ine orscraarees, ea the

registered rune unrels lo practi el the hme oF ack care deloeny a meg ane cI
come I prot! 30 without remedial oxislenee (CRNNS, 2617

Plan of care: A slo» to guide “urs ag core tel supper wrerpraferswel preci and
collabora c+ Pr omy musing intervsnhonssupst ng each el en“ urique care at locus em
the acheverrent scl omcenter goal: sovide a n9p ha? g.ides care INANB, 201 8brew
re

Professionall misconduct Isludes uch corde: oF cof elevate “he profession
thot. how ng regord 9a he creimrorces, would eosovaaly be regerded es digracell,
dl shonaurable ot enprofssional ICRRNS, 2017]

Professionall practice issues: /xy siuote> inthe warkplece at hos ot could place
liars of ie by ifefering sur the RNs ability 9 prac in accordance sith che Stondordl
oF Proct ce fo Reg tered Nurses, the Cave of his for Rogylerce Nuros, he Nurses Al or
ther lgisloion, workplece palcies, reced

INANB, 20° 4

cor cher levar! tardord: and guidel nat

Scope of practic
su" legisll oa
201 3tnew ELCS)

The ocr op trot Bs org educoted and curherzee lo pertoim, os sat
fexined by #tandards, ins ond cov ditions #6" by agulators (NEN,

Stentor of ace fe Regulees Nees ond Nae Pach

nN

References

Cenedion Nurses Aszacation [2017]. Code wf Les for Registered Nurses

Exawa, ON: Author

Ceredion Nees Assocation [2015]. Ieamewcrk forthe Fea

Cana, Orewa. ON. Athos,

new of Regitared Nurses in

Cenedion Nevses Associaton [2004], Postion Statement. Promoting Continuicg
far eiteed Nurses, Ctowa, ON: Aushar

Collage f Reg seed Nurses of Neva Seale, 2OI/), stondar
Nevses Halle, NS. Actor

Practies fo Registra

Nat e+a| Council ef State Boosels of Nursing [207d A Nuvse’s Guide me Froessional
ies Creag, I, Bale

«a Now th, 202} Shae Act Frc, NBL Anse

don af New Bransinck, (211) Precce Gy

inlioe, Asnigning, Delagatng
soe Pevider. Pesta ston, NB Aarho

fo Faachg $9 Hive

Nurses Rose ef New Bison. (2512) Expl te icon
Profession Info Nuts ng, 2317] 4147,

fo SeiFRegstaind

Fc son, NB. Ath

Nurses Aue ery sf New Bist. |2STS0} Stancorl or ds Prats of Pamey Mol

Noraon Aue sry 6 New Beats |2STR! Fey fel Compute fas gon
loser, NB. Aur

Nasser Now Beonorach

ag sated Nate Accson ofthe Mose T

12
OF IESG WES ERMITORIES ANL ML SARUT

() REGISTERED NURSES ASSOCIATION

