Regiiterad Nurses Avant ion | Administration General aliay

oF the No-thaest lertories

and Nunavut, Policy Deseigt en: Aopettmerts National
corrittons

Page: Lol? Policy wmber AGE
Effecive Date; September 18, 2018 ‘New Polley —_
Signature: Revision: Partial _X Complete

Review Date: September 2020
‘Applies To: The RNANT/NU Board of rectors

Purpose: 19 ensue SWANIJAU repr eserration an Nabonal Comm ees

Definitions:
National Committee A1Naciona Commitee reters to a grap o° arganieation, a she nations evel
uth prowecis and teraar alren’eserraion jeg, Caradon Wuses Protective Society, Canadian Nues
Foundation}. Periodical, national committees "nay request a member o* RNANT/NU be eppointed toa
committe, 05 9 representot uf of RNSNT/N

Paley

1. Appointments to Natenel Comm Lees will be made by the Soard of Diraters

2. Tre Board determine ifthe requescing commitcaes mandate is relevant ta the work at
NANT, anti Cv public ceresL

3. RANTING will adversie national committee request onthe website and seek out an ncindual ho
han te experte the ate

4. Tremernser must bein gaod stardirg and corvritto reparting back to the Board en the ativies
ofthe commuter

5. Tremernoer ui incizate in wring that they want tobe cancide'ed for the committee and wy.
Unless, tren se negotiated sith tne Board, zhe expenses af attensance atthe ational
cemmittge meetings is ether coveres by tne re-nbe’ ar the national commitee. [Le trave,
xrammodation, teleconference casts, members howdy tine or hack

Caneitians and Excaptions:
une

‘Authority and Accountability:
This poly is ‘sued under the ruthority af the RNANT/NU Board at Directors ard ae gnverned bythe
Northwest Fer torus Nursing Profession Aut [2003] ane tke Nunavul Nursing Act (1898). The Board af
Directars has the authority o “evse this pol ey as required

‘The Bezrd of Directarsisresponsicle lor she implementaton ofthis policy and may ce egate eny related
dmnistat vo tasks

Registered Nurses Aviee aon
oF the Northen leretories
and Nunavut,

Sagar 2 of 2

“Rarmiieration Ganral Paley

Policy Descigt en: Aapetntmerts~ National
Commies

Policy Murr bur- 8

History

This policy realaces Adistration General Po icy AGA: Appointmerts~ National Coramttees, issued 9

20M and revised May 14, 2018,

