Tagine'ed Nurses sociation | Registration Policy
of the Romthaest fare toves

sand Nunavut Policy Description: Continuing Cempetence Plan
(Ce) aude

Page: 1 ot?
Paty Numer: RIE

‘tfactive Dates lanuary 2022 ‘New Paley
Revision: Partial _X_ Campleta__

Signature

Review Date: January 2025

‘Applies To: All RNANT/NL embers that wave had brew Canning Competence Plan ICCPY
‘requested by RNANT/INU for audit purposes.

Purpare: This policy outlines the audit process af tre Cantinaing Competence Nar, TWs policy Rv
deht onto Regit-ation Po ey LI: Centnwng Competence P an UEP)

Pal

cy:

1. Audit Frequency
Ten pe-cenc oF the artive RNART/NUI ere messi

IMs and NPS) wil be audited anoually

2. uit Process
ai Afstof the autive members wll be created, ard random sar ple wil be generate.
by The Regist” will noviy the members by emallshat they have heen randomly selected to submi=

theic COP La RNANINL

1} Members lle g ven 30 days ater the nattzatian email was sent to subrn't tel” CCP to the
Repstar

44} CCPS willbe reviewed by she Registrar and Registration Committes tor content, completeness.
and accwiacy The Reqistrar and lenstation Com miter will ie an sud assessment too!

fel An aua't record willbe noted an the member's fil indict ng the date

fa subertoed CCP is deemed unstistactory by the eg siratior Committee or Regist, 178
Registrar w I povide the member with weaken feedback and may request vison andlor
addions formation shat must be prowdea wth n 30 days afer the eesubriss an request
tema was sent

A} Failure ta comply with the Continuing Competence Program vequirements may resul: the
regstran’s agaheatior fur remlatemertirenevwal bsg dered A Formal eum ay Be

outcome ofthe aud.

Farvirdae to the Protessional Conduct Committe.

Coneitlons and exceptions:
Tagineed Nurses sociation | Registration Policy
ofthe nomthaest far toves

sand Nunavut Policy Description: Continuing Competence Plan
(cow) aude

Page. 20?
Paty Number: RAZ

‘Authority and Accountability:
This poy is sued under the euthority of the FNANT/NU Board of Directors ard a: governed by the NU
Nursing Act 12008}, Section 3 NT Mucsing Pofessipn er {7004}, Section 29, RNANT/NU Ayla 3, Sect en
$18} eh and Bylaw @, The Besrd of Dirwcturs has the authority to “evi: this ol ey as required

The Direct of Ragulatory Services and Policy and the Registration Cemmittes are secountab e t9 the
Baar af Drecto’s, and ltimately ta the membership far theimpla-nentati af this pal cy and may
delegate wny related aden trative task,

History:
This poly reaaces the farmer ply

2: refers! Development Pan PDPY Avi, revived May 2010, Revised January 2022,

