Registered Varses sociation
of fe Northaest lereitones
and Vunawut

Pope: Lote

‘armmiration General Paioy

Policy Deseiption: Research

Policy lumber. AGE

Eiietive Date: May 14, 216
stanature: 7

Review Bate: May 2019

Taewe Paley
Revision:

Partial Complete

“Applies Ta: "»e RUANT IU Board 6 Uirectare, Exerative Director, and rr ployee

Purpose: To oathne Une process Tor adaresing Formal research raquo,

Paley

1, formal research aquest sabmnitted to the ANANT/NU mst ielade the Folkswing informat on

about the oropased researen

4. Purpose atthe research and it significance ta health /narsng

>. Research das'gr and methodology:

Potential vesesres partic

sand selectior process

1d. Potential rsa uve aenehls toresearch aarti;

6. Sleps token oy enaure mnformed curser. vonfcuntility, and protection of patiipam daa

4. areas of polenta cuntha of interest

Proof thatantthica Review w9s carted out bythe supgortig mtittion:

1 Proctthe resen‘ch attends to vecommenditions ef the fr-Counci Ply Stotement elated
to reesrea with Ind genous Peuples, if applicaal;

Proof of obtaining av appropriate licence from the

arora Resear ist tte (or

shyvest Territories) arufor
Nunavut Research esciute Nunavut ancfor

Tit Deoustmunt of Heath ad Social Services Ellis Boutd or AulboilyEthis Review

‘comm tte:

1tten agreement tor che researcher a aosorb ll costs related “athe Associt‘en's

smeolvementn the wequested research fog, te RNANL/NU will not release amy peso%9
information abo. ts embers and, thus, the creation of labels and maling of esearch
materials must be dae inffrom the RNANT/NI ocr,

Ragitered Varses Aesaciation | Adminstration Ganeral Policy
of te Northaest leretones

and Vunavut Policy Deseiption: Research
Pope: 202 Policy Number, AG

46 Plans fr she dissemination af research “ests, ard

1 tten agreement that research results willbe shaved with the RNANT/NU
2. Allrasearch requests wll e rav'ewed 7a ensue:
4. The study parsmeters appear sound:

2. All-equiraments are met fo" ethical and northern research appeal
The research is ofinte-est anafor heneht ta racthern nurse

4. Thed stribution eaquirements ford
the Aste ations employees;

calletion re not too aif cult ar ime consuming fot

6. The researcher sw ig to cover [costs relat to the SNANT/NU imvotvarent the
vesentrn, and

4. The exeariier is commited teshareg the research result wth the RNANT/NU

‘coneitlons and Exceptions

‘This poi is applicable oly to research request irvalving i the use of merberssip intarmation stared
nthe #YANT/AU catabase, iw publication nthe BNARI/NU aewsltter, oi the Use oF HRANT/NU
information or resources,

Authority and Accountability:

This pir is sued under the authority of che RNANT/NU Baad af Picertors and 35 governed by the
Nerthwesl Terr tonus Nursing Profesior Act [2003] and tre Nuntavul Nursing Act (1898). The Board of
Directors has the authority 0 “ese thispol ey as required

‘The Executive rettor is stcountable to te Bore ot Diresrore, and ultimare y tothe membership, tor

Gre ungle-meman-rol this poly ond reay delegate wy related adonstrative ine,

History:
This polly updates nd reslaces Mo icy 2.8, issued ir 2003 and revises May 2006.
